content/en/docs/concepts/storage/projected-volumes.md, before:

---
reviewers:
- marosset
- jsturtevant
- zshihang
title: Projected Volumes
content_type: concept
weight: 21 # just after persistent volumes
---

<!-- overview -->

This document describes _projected volumes_ in Kubernetes. Familiarity with [volumes](/docs/concepts/storage/volumes/) is suggested.

<!-- body -->

## Introduction

A `projected` volume maps several existing volume sources into the same directory.

Currently, the following types of volume sources can be projected:

* [`secret`](/docs/concepts/storage/volumes/#secret)
* [`downwardAPI`](/docs/concepts/storage/volumes/#downwardapi)
* [`configMap`](/docs/concepts/storage/volumes/#configmap)
* `serviceAccountToken`

All sources are required to be in the same namespace as the Pod. For more details,
see the [all-in-one volume](https://github.com/kubernetes/design-proposals-archive/blob/main/node/all-in-one-volume.md) design document.

### Example configuration with a secret, a downwardAPI, and a configMap {#example-configuration-secret-downwardapi-configmap}

{{< codenew file="pods/storage/projected-secret-downwardapi-configmap.yaml" >}}

### Example configuration: secrets with a non-default permission mode set {#example-configuration-secrets-nondefault-permission-mode}

{{< codenew file="pods/storage/projected-secrets-nondefault-permission-mode.yaml" >}}

Each projected volume source is listed in the spec under `sources`. The
parameters are nearly the same with two exceptions:

* For secrets, the `secretName` field has been changed to `name` to be consistent
  with ConfigMap naming.
* The `defaultMode` can only be specified at the projected level and not for each
  volume source. However, as illustrated above, you can explicitly set the `mode`
  for each individual projection.

When the `TokenRequestProjection` feature is enabled, you can inject the token
for the current [service account](/docs/reference/access-authn-authz/authentication/#service-account-tokens)
into a Pod at a specified path. For example:

{{< codenew file="pods/storage/projected-service-account-token.yaml" >}}

The example Pod has a projected volume containing the injected service account
token. This token can be used by a Pod's containers to access the Kubernetes API
server. The `audience` field contains the intended audience of the
token. A recipient of the token must identify itself with an identifier specified
in the audience of the token, and otherwise should reject the token. This field
is optional and it defaults to the identifier of the API server.

The `expirationSeconds` is the expected duration of validity of the service account
token. It defaults to 1 hour and must be at least 10 minutes (600 seconds). An administrator
can also limit its maximum value by specifying the `--service-account-max-token-expiration`
option for the API server. The `path` field specifies a relative path to the mount point
of the projected volume.

{{< note >}}
A container using a projected volume source as a [`subPath`](/docs/concepts/storage/volumes/#using-subpath)
volume mount will not receive updates for those volume sources.
{{< /note >}}

## SecurityContext interactions

The [proposal](https://github.com/kubernetes/enhancements/tree/master/keps/sig-storage/2451-service-account-token-volumes#proposal) for file permission handling in projected service account volume enhancement introduced the projected files having the the correct owner permissions set.

### Linux

In Linux pods that have a projected volume and `RunAsUser` set in the Pod
[`SecurityContext`](/docs/reference/kubernetes-api/workload-resources/pod-v1/#security-context),
the projected files have the correct ownership set including container user
ownership.

### Windows

In Windows pods that have a projected volume and `RunAsUsername` set in the
Pod `SecurityContext`, the ownership is not enforced due to the way user
accounts are managed in Windows. Windows stores and manages local user and group
accounts in a database file called Security Account Manager (SAM). Each
container maintains its own instance of the SAM database, to which the host has
no visibility into while the container is running. Windows containers are
designed to run the user mode portion of the OS in isolation from the host,
hence the maintenance of a virtual SAM database. As a result, the kubelet running
on the host does not have the ability to dynamically configure host file
ownership for virtualized container accounts. It is recommended that if files on
the host machine are to be shared with the container then they should be placed
into their own volume mount outside of `C:\`.

By default, the projected files will have the following ownership as shown for
an example projected volume file:
```powershell
PS C:\> Get-Acl C:\var\run\secrets\kubernetes.io\serviceaccount\..2021_08_31_22_22_18.318230061\ca.crt | Format-List

Path   : Microsoft.PowerShell.Core\FileSystem::C:\var\run\secrets\kubernetes.io\serviceaccount\..2021_08_31_22_22_18.318230061\ca.crt
Owner  : BUILTIN\Administrators
Group  : NT AUTHORITY\SYSTEM
Access : NT AUTHORITY\SYSTEM Allow  FullControl
         BUILTIN\Administrators Allow  FullControl
         BUILTIN\Users Allow  ReadAndExecute, Synchronize
Audit  :
Sddl   : O:BAG:SYD:AI(A;ID;FA;;;SY)(A;ID;FA;;;BA)(A;ID;0x1200a9;;;BU)
```
This implies all administrator users like `ContainerAdministrator` will have
read, write and execute access while, non-administrator users will have read and
execute access.

{{< note >}}
In general, granting the container access to the host is discouraged as it can
open the door for potential security exploits.

Creating a Windows Pod with `RunAsUser` in it's `SecurityContext` will result in
the Pod being stuck at `ContainerCreating` forever. So it is advised to not use
the Linux only `RunAsUser` option with Windows Pods.
{{< /note >}}

Commit message:

feat: documenting serviceAccountToken volume type (#31329)
* feat: documenting serviceAccountToken volume type

* serviceAccountToken: correct few terms

* Update volumes.md

* Migrate to projected-volumes

* Update projected-volumes.md

* Remove serviceAccountToken from volume type

* Update projected-volumes.md

* Change heading's fragment identifier

content/en/docs/concepts/storage/projected-volumes.md, after:

---
reviewers:
- marosset
- jsturtevant
- zshihang
title: Projected Volumes
content_type: concept
weight: 21 # just after persistent volumes
---

<!-- overview -->

This document describes _projected volumes_ in Kubernetes. Familiarity with [volumes](/docs/concepts/storage/volumes/) is suggested.

<!-- body -->

## Introduction

A `projected` volume maps several existing volume sources into the same directory.

Currently, the following types of volume sources can be projected:

* [`secret`](/docs/concepts/storage/volumes/#secret)
* [`downwardAPI`](/docs/concepts/storage/volumes/#downwardapi)
* [`configMap`](/docs/concepts/storage/volumes/#configmap)
* [`serviceAccountToken`](#serviceaccounttoken)

All sources are required to be in the same namespace as the Pod. For more details,
see the [all-in-one volume](https://github.com/kubernetes/design-proposals-archive/blob/main/node/all-in-one-volume.md) design document.

### Example configuration with a secret, a downwardAPI, and a configMap {#example-configuration-secret-downwardapi-configmap}

{{< codenew file="pods/storage/projected-secret-downwardapi-configmap.yaml" >}}

### Example configuration: secrets with a non-default permission mode set {#example-configuration-secrets-nondefault-permission-mode}

{{< codenew file="pods/storage/projected-secrets-nondefault-permission-mode.yaml" >}}

Each projected volume source is listed in the spec under `sources`. The
parameters are nearly the same with two exceptions:

* For secrets, the `secretName` field has been changed to `name` to be consistent
  with ConfigMap naming.
* The `defaultMode` can only be specified at the projected level and not for each
  volume source. However, as illustrated above, you can explicitly set the `mode`
  for each individual projection.

## serviceAccountToken projected volumes {#serviceaccounttoken}
When the `TokenRequestProjection` feature is enabled, you can inject the token
for the current [service account](/docs/reference/access-authn-authz/authentication/#service-account-tokens)
into a Pod at a specified path. For example:

{{< codenew file="pods/storage/projected-service-account-token.yaml" >}}

The example Pod has a projected volume containing the injected service account
token. Containers in this Pod can use that token to access the Kubernetes API
server, authenticating with the identity of [the pod's ServiceAccount]
(/docs/tasks/configure-pod-container/configure-service-account/).
The `audience` field contains the intended audience of the
token. A recipient of the token must identify itself with an identifier specified
in the audience of the token, and otherwise should reject the token. This field
is optional and it defaults to the identifier of the API server.

The `expirationSeconds` is the expected duration of validity of the service account
token. It defaults to 1 hour and must be at least 10 minutes (600 seconds). An administrator
can also limit its maximum value by specifying the `--service-account-max-token-expiration`
option for the API server. The `path` field specifies a relative path to the mount point
of the projected volume.

{{< note >}}
A container using a projected volume source as a [`subPath`](/docs/concepts/storage/volumes/#using-subpath)
volume mount will not receive updates for those volume sources.
{{< /note >}}

## SecurityContext interactions

The [proposal](https://github.com/kubernetes/enhancements/tree/master/keps/sig-storage/2451-service-account-token-volumes#proposal) for file permission handling in projected service account volume enhancement introduced the projected files having the the correct owner permissions set.

### Linux

In Linux pods that have a projected volume and `RunAsUser` set in the Pod
[`SecurityContext`](/docs/reference/kubernetes-api/workload-resources/pod-v1/#security-context),
the projected files have the correct ownership set including container user
ownership.

### Windows

In Windows pods that have a projected volume and `RunAsUsername` set in the
Pod `SecurityContext`, the ownership is not enforced due to the way user
accounts are managed in Windows. Windows stores and manages local user and group
accounts in a database file called Security Account Manager (SAM). Each
container maintains its own instance of the SAM database, to which the host has
no visibility into while the container is running. Windows containers are
designed to run the user mode portion of the OS in isolation from the host,
hence the maintenance of a virtual SAM database. As a result, the kubelet running
on the host does not have the ability to dynamically configure host file
ownership for virtualized container accounts. It is recommended that if files on
the host machine are to be shared with the container then they should be placed
into their own volume mount outside of `C:\`.

By default, the projected files will have the following ownership as shown for
an example projected volume file:
```powershell
PS C:\> Get-Acl C:\var\run\secrets\kubernetes.io\serviceaccount\..2021_08_31_22_22_18.318230061\ca.crt | Format-List

Path   : Microsoft.PowerShell.Core\FileSystem::C:\var\run\secrets\kubernetes.io\serviceaccount\..2021_08_31_22_22_18.318230061\ca.crt
Owner  : BUILTIN\Administrators
Group  : NT AUTHORITY\SYSTEM
Access : NT AUTHORITY\SYSTEM Allow  FullControl
         BUILTIN\Administrators Allow  FullControl
         BUILTIN\Users Allow  ReadAndExecute, Synchronize
Audit  :
Sddl   : O:BAG:SYD:AI(A;ID;FA;;;SY)(A;ID;FA;;;BA)(A;ID;0x1200a9;;;BU)
```
This implies all administrator users like `ContainerAdministrator` will have
read, write and execute access while, non-administrator users will have read and
execute access.

{{< note >}}
In general, granting the container access to the host is discouraged as it can
open the door for potential security exploits.

Creating a Windows Pod with `RunAsUser` in it's `SecurityContext` will result in
the Pod being stuck at `ContainerCreating` forever. So it is advised to not use
the Linux only `RunAsUser` option with Windows Pods.
{{< /note >}}
