content/en/docs/contribute/review/reviewing-prs.md, before:

---
title: Reviewing pull requests
content_type: concept
main_menu: true
weight: 10
---

<!-- overview -->

Anyone can review a documentation pull request. Visit the [pull requests](https://github.com/kubernetes/website/pulls)
section in the Kubernetes website repository to see open pull requests.

Reviewing documentation pull requests is a
great way to introduce yourself to the Kubernetes community.
It helps you learn the code base and build trust with other contributors.

Before reviewing, it's a good idea to:

- Read the  [content guide](/docs/contribute/style/content-guide/) and
  [style guide](/docs/contribute/style/style-guide/) so you can leave informed comments.
- Understand the different
  [roles and responsibilities](/docs/contribute/participate/roles-and-responsibilities/)
  in the Kubernetes documentation community.

<!-- body -->

## Before you begin

Before you start a review:


- Read the [CNCF Code of Conduct](https://github.com/cncf/foundation/blob/main/code-of-conduct.md)
  and ensure that you abide by it at all times.
- Be polite, considerate, and helpful.
- Comment on positive aspects of PRs as well as changes.
- Be empathetic and mindful of how your review may be received.
- Assume good intent and ask clarifying questions.
- Experienced contributors, consider pairing with new contributors whose work requires extensive changes.

## Review process

In general, review pull requests for content and style in English. Figure 1 outlines the steps for
the review process. The details for each step follow.

<!-- See https://github.com/kubernetes/website/issues/28808 for live-editor URL to this figure -->
<!-- You can also cut/paste the mermaid code into the live editor at https://mermaid-js.github.io/mermaid-live-editor to play around with it -->

{{< mermaid >}}
flowchart LR
    subgraph fourth[Start review]
    direction TB
    S[ ] -.-
    M[add comments] --> N[review changes]
    N --> O[new contributors should<br>choose Comment]
    end
    subgraph third[Select PR]
    direction TB
    T[ ] -.-
    J[read description<br>and comments]--> K[preview changes in<br>Netlify preview build]
    end
 
  A[Review open PR list]--> B[Filter open PRs<br>by label]
  B --> third --> fourth
     

classDef grey fill:#dddddd,stroke:#ffffff,stroke-width:px,color:#000000, font-size:15px;
classDef white fill:#ffffff,stroke:#000,stroke-width:px,color:#000,font-weight:bold
classDef spacewhite fill:#ffffff,stroke:#fff,stroke-width:0px,color:#000
class A,B,J,K,M,N,O grey
class S,T spacewhite
class third,fourth white
{{</ mermaid >}}

Figure 1. Review process steps.

1. Go to [https://github.com/kubernetes/website/pulls](https://github.com/kubernetes/website/pulls).
   You see a list of every open pull request against the Kubernetes website and docs.

2. Filter the open PRs using one or all of the following labels:

   - `cncf-cla: yes` (Recommended): PRs submitted by contributors who have not signed the CLA
     cannot be merged. See [Sign the CLA](/docs/contribute/new-content/#sign-the-cla)
     for more information.
   - `language/en` (Recommended): Filters for english language PRs only.
   - `size/<size>`: filters for PRs of a certain size. If you're new, start with smaller PRs.

   Additionally, ensure the PR isn't marked as a work in progress. PRs using the `work in
   progress` label are not ready for review yet.

3. Once you've selected a PR to review, understand the change by:

   - Reading the PR description to understand the changes made, and read any linked issues
   - Reading any comments by other reviewers
   - Clicking the **Files changed** tab to see the files and lines changed
   - Previewing the changes in the Netlify preview build by scrolling to the PR's build check
     section at the bottom of the **Conversation** tab.
     Here's a screenshot (this shows GitHub's desktop site; if you're reviewing
     on a tablet or smartphone device, the GitHub web UI is slightly different):
     {{< figure src="/images/docs/github_netlify_deploy_preview.png" alt="GitHub pull request details including link to Netlify preview" >}}
     To open the preview, click on the  **Details** link of the **deploy/netlify** line in the
     list of checks.

4. Go to the **Files changed** tab to start your review.

   1. Click on the `+` symbol  beside the line you want to comment on.
   1. Fill in any comments you have about the line and click either **Add single comment** (if you
      have only one comment to make) or  **Start a review** (if you have multiple comments to make).
   1. When finished, click **Review changes** at the top of the page. Here, you can add
      a summary of your review (and leave some positive comments for the contributor!),
      approve the PR, comment or request changes as needed. New contributors should always
      choose **Comment**.

## Reviewing checklist

When reviewing, use the following as a starting point.

### Language and grammar

- Are there any obvious errors in language or grammar? Is there a better way to phrase something?
- Are there any complicated or archaic words which could be replaced with a simpler word?
- Are there any words, terms or phrases in use which could be replaced with a non-discriminatory alternative?
- Does the word choice and its capitalization follow the [style guide](/docs/contribute/style/style-guide/)?
- Are there long sentences which could be shorter or less complex?
- Are there any long paragraphs which might work better as a list or table?

### Content

- Does similar content exist elsewhere on the Kubernetes site?
- Does the content excessively link to off-site, individual vendor or non-open source documentation?

### Website

- Did this PR change or remove a page title, slug/alias or anchor link? If so, are there broken
  links as a result of this PR? Is there another option, like changing the page title without
  changing the slug?

- Does the PR introduce a new page? If so:

  - Is the page using the right [page content type](/docs/contribute/style/page-content-types/)
    and associated Hugo shortcodes?
  - Does the page appear correctly in the section's side navigation (or at all)?
  - Should the page appear on the [Docs Home](/docs/home/) listing?

- Do the changes show up in the Netlify preview? Be particularly vigilant about lists, code
  blocks, tables, notes and images.

### Other

For small issues with a PR, like typos or whitespace, prefix your comments with `nit:`.
This lets the author know the issue is non-critical.

Commit message:

Improve reviewing PRs guide
This PR proposes an update to the PR review guidelines. The proposed change is about the use of the "Request changes" or the "Approve" option when finishing a PR review. Neither of these two options should be encouraged. We may want to encourage reviewers to always use "Comment", because:

- "Request changes" status is sticky and unnecessary. Placing a "/hold" should be okay because we do respect opinions from all reviewers/approvers.
  The "Request changes" status can only be discarded by people with privileges.
  We see quite a few cases where the reviewer left a "Request changes" mark and forgot to revisit a PR.
  Such a sticky status is not friendly to contributors or peer reviewers.

- The "Approve" option is confusing. It is not considered by the prow as an approval IIUC. The PR has to be approved again even if it has been "approved" this way.

content/en/docs/contribute/review/reviewing-prs.md, after:

---
title: Reviewing pull requests
content_type: concept
main_menu: true
weight: 10
---

<!-- overview -->

Anyone can review a documentation pull request. Visit the [pull requests](https://github.com/kubernetes/website/pulls)
section in the Kubernetes website repository to see open pull requests.

Reviewing documentation pull requests is a great way to introduce yourself to the Kubernetes
community.  It helps you learn the code base and build trust with other contributors.

Before reviewing, it's a good idea to:

- Read the  [content guide](/docs/contribute/style/content-guide/) and
  [style guide](/docs/contribute/style/style-guide/) so you can leave informed comments.
- Understand the different
  [roles and responsibilities](/docs/contribute/participate/roles-and-responsibilities/)
  in the Kubernetes documentation community.

<!-- body -->

## Before you begin

Before you start a review:

- Read the [CNCF Code of Conduct](https://github.com/cncf/foundation/blob/main/code-of-conduct.md)
  and ensure that you abide by it at all times.
- Be polite, considerate, and helpful.
- Comment on positive aspects of PRs as well as changes.
- Be empathetic and mindful of how your review may be received.
- Assume good intent and ask clarifying questions.
- Experienced contributors, consider pairing with new contributors whose work requires extensive changes.

## Review process

In general, review pull requests for content and style in English. Figure 1 outlines the steps for
the review process. The details for each step follow.

<!-- See https://github.com/kubernetes/website/issues/28808 for live-editor URL to this figure -->
<!-- You can also cut/paste the mermaid code into the live editor at https://mermaid-js.github.io/mermaid-live-editor to play around with it -->

{{< mermaid >}}
flowchart LR
    subgraph fourth[Start review]
    direction TB
    S[ ] -.-
    M[add comments] --> N[review changes]
    N --> O[new contributors should<br>choose Comment]
    end
    subgraph third[Select PR]
    direction TB
    T[ ] -.-
    J[read description<br>and comments]--> K[preview changes in<br>Netlify preview build]
    end
 
  A[Review open PR list]--> B[Filter open PRs<br>by label]
  B --> third --> fourth
     

classDef grey fill:#dddddd,stroke:#ffffff,stroke-width:px,color:#000000, font-size:15px;
classDef white fill:#ffffff,stroke:#000,stroke-width:px,color:#000,font-weight:bold
classDef spacewhite fill:#ffffff,stroke:#fff,stroke-width:0px,color:#000
class A,B,J,K,M,N,O grey
class S,T spacewhite
class third,fourth white
{{</ mermaid >}}

Figure 1. Review process steps.


1. Go to [https://github.com/kubernetes/website/pulls](https://github.com/kubernetes/website/pulls).
   You see a list of every open pull request against the Kubernetes website and docs.

2. Filter the open PRs using one or all of the following labels:

   - `cncf-cla: yes` (Recommended): PRs submitted by contributors who have not signed the CLA
     cannot be merged. See [Sign the CLA](/docs/contribute/new-content/#sign-the-cla)
     for more information.
   - `language/en` (Recommended): Filters for english language PRs only.
   - `size/<size>`: filters for PRs of a certain size. If you're new, start with smaller PRs.

   Additionally, ensure the PR isn't marked as a work in progress. PRs using the `work in
   progress` label are not ready for review yet.

3. Once you've selected a PR to review, understand the change by:

   - Reading the PR description to understand the changes made, and read any linked issues
   - Reading any comments by other reviewers
   - Clicking the **Files changed** tab to see the files and lines changed
   - Previewing the changes in the Netlify preview build by scrolling to the PR's build check
     section at the bottom of the **Conversation** tab.
     Here's a screenshot (this shows GitHub's desktop site; if you're reviewing
     on a tablet or smartphone device, the GitHub web UI is slightly different):
     {{< figure src="/images/docs/github_netlify_deploy_preview.png" alt="GitHub pull request details including link to Netlify preview" >}}
     To open the preview, click on the  **Details** link of the **deploy/netlify** line in the
     list of checks.

4. Go to the **Files changed** tab to start your review.

   1. Click on the `+` symbol  beside the line you want to comment on.
   1. Fill in any comments you have about the line and click either **Add single comment**
      (if you have only one comment to make) or **Start a review** (if you have multiple comments to make).
   1. When finished, click **Review changes** at the top of the page. Here, you can add
      a summary of your review (and leave some positive comments for the contributor!).
      Please always use the "Comment"

     - Avoid clicking the "Request changes" button when finishing your review.
       If you want to block a PR from being merged before some further changes are made,
       you can leave a "/hold" comment.
       Mention why you are setting a hold, and optionally specify the conditions under
       which the hold can be removed by you or other reviewers.

     - Avoid clicking the "Approve" button when finishing your review.
       Leaving a "/approve" comment is recommended most of the time.

## Reviewing checklist

When reviewing, use the following as a starting point.

### Language and grammar

- Are there any obvious errors in language or grammar? Is there a better way to phrase something?
- Are there any complicated or archaic words which could be replaced with a simpler word?
- Are there any words, terms or phrases in use which could be replaced with a non-discriminatory alternative?
- Does the word choice and its capitalization follow the [style guide](/docs/contribute/style/style-guide/)?
- Are there long sentences which could be shorter or less complex?
- Are there any long paragraphs which might work better as a list or table?

### Content

- Does similar content exist elsewhere on the Kubernetes site?
- Does the content excessively link to off-site, individual vendor or non-open source documentation?

### Website

- Did this PR change or remove a page title, slug/alias or anchor link? If so, are there broken
  links as a result of this PR? Is there another option, like changing the page title without
  changing the slug?

- Does the PR introduce a new page? If so:

  - Is the page using the right [page content type](/docs/contribute/style/page-content-types/)
    and associated Hugo shortcodes?
  - Does the page appear correctly in the section's side navigation (or at all)?
  - Should the page appear on the [Docs Home](/docs/home/) listing?

- Do the changes show up in the Netlify preview? Be particularly vigilant about lists, code
  blocks, tables, notes and images.

### Other

For small issues with a PR, like typos or whitespace, prefix your comments with `nit:`.
This lets the author know the issue is non-critical.
