content/zh-cn/docs/tasks/debug/debug-application/determine-reason-pod-failure.md, before:

---
title: 确定 Pod 失败的原因
content_type: task
---

<!--
title: Determine the Reason for Pod Failure
content_type: task
-->

<!-- overview -->

<!--
This page shows how to write and read a Container
termination message.
-->
本文介绍如何编写和读取容器的终止消息。

<!--
Termination messages provide a way for containers to write
information about fatal events to a location where it can
be easily retrieved and surfaced by tools like dashboards
and monitoring software. In most cases, information that you
put in a termination message should also be written to
the general
[Kubernetes logs](/docs/concepts/cluster-administration/logging/).
-->
终止消息为容器提供了一种方法，可以将有关致命事件的信息写入某个位置，
在该位置可以通过仪表板和监控软件等工具轻松检索和显示致命事件。
在大多数情况下，你放入终止消息中的信息也应该写入
[常规 Kubernetes 日志](/zh-cn/docs/concepts/cluster-administration/logging/)。

## {{% heading "prerequisites" %}}

{{< include "task-tutorial-prereqs.md" >}} {{< version-check >}}

<!-- steps -->

<!--
## Writing and reading a termination message

In this exercise, you create a Pod that runs one container.
The configuration file specifies a command that runs when
the container starts.
-->
## 读写终止消息

在本练习中，你将创建运行一个容器的 Pod。
配置文件指定在容器启动时要运行的命令。

{{< codenew file="debug/termination.yaml" >}}

<!-- 1. Create a Pod based on the YAML configuration file: -->
1. 基于 YAML 配置文件创建 Pod：

        kubectl apply -f https://k8s.io/examples/debug/termination.yaml   

   <!--
   In the YAML file, in the `command` and `args` fields, you can see that the
   container sleeps for 10 seconds and then writes "Sleep expired" to
   the `/dev/termination-log` file. After the container writes
   the "Sleep expired" message, it terminates.
   -->
   YAML 文件中，在 `command` 和 `args` 字段，你可以看到容器休眠 10 秒然后将 "Sleep expired"
   写入 `/dev/termination-log` 文件。
   容器写完 "Sleep expired" 消息后就终止了。

<!-- 1. Display information about the Pod: -->
1. 显示 Pod 的信息：

        kubectl get pod termination-demo

   <!--Repeat the preceding command until the Pod is no longer running.-->
   重复前面的命令直到 Pod 不再运行。

<!-- 1. Display detailed information about the Pod: -->
1. 显示 Pod 的详细信息：

        kubectl get pod termination-demo --output=yaml

   <!--The output includes the "Sleep expired" message:-->
   输出结果包含 "Sleep expired" 消息：

        apiVersion: v1
        kind: Pod
        ...
            lastState:
              terminated:
                containerID: ...
                exitCode: 0
                finishedAt: ...
                message: |
                  Sleep expired
                ...

<!-- 
1. Use a Go template to filter the output so that it includes
only the termination message:
-->
1. 使用 Go 模板过滤输出结果，使其只含有终止消息：

        kubectl get pod termination-demo -o go-template="{{range .status.containerStatuses}}{{.lastState.terminated.message}}{{end}}"
   
<!--
If you are running a multi-container pod, you can use a Go template to include the container's name. By doing so, you can discover which of the containers is failing:
-->
如果你正在运行多容器 Pod，则可以使用 Go 模板来包含容器的名称。这样，你可以发现哪些容器出现故障:

```shell
kubectl get pod multi-container-pod -o go-template='{{range .status.containerStatuses}}{{printf "%s:\n%s\n\n" .name .lastState.terminated.message}}{{end}}'
```

<!--
## Customizing the termination message

Kubernetes retrieves termination messages from the termination message file
specified in the `terminationMessagePath` field of a Container, which as a default
value of `/dev/termination-log`. By customizing this field, you can tell Kubernetes
to use a different file. Kubernetes use the contents from the specified file to
populate the Container's status message on both success and failure.
-->
## 定制终止消息

Kubernetes 从容器的 `terminationMessagePath` 字段中指定的终止消息文件中检索终止消息，
默认值为 `/dev/termination-log`。
通过定制这个字段，你可以告诉 Kubernetes 使用不同的文件。
Kubernetes 使用指定文件中的内容在成功和失败时填充容器的状态消息。

<!--
In the following example, the container writes termination messages to
`/tmp/my-log` for Kubernetes to retrieve:
-->
在下例中，容器将终止消息写入 `/tmp/my-log` 给 Kubernetes 来接收：

```yaml
apiVersion: v1
kind: Pod
metadata:
  name: msg-path-demo
spec:
  containers:
  - name: msg-path-demo-container
    image: debian
    terminationMessagePath: "/tmp/my-log"
```

<!--
Moreover, users can set the `terminationMessagePolicy` field of a Container for
further customization. This field defaults to "`File`" which means the termination
messages are retrieved only from the termination message file. By setting the
`terminationMessagePolicy` to "`FallbackToLogsOnError`", you can tell Kubernetes
to use the last chunk of container log output if the termination message file
is empty and the container exited with an error. The log output is limited to
2048 bytes or 80 lines, whichever is smaller.
-->
此外，用户可以设置容器的 `terminationMessagePolicy` 字段，以便进一步自定义。
此字段默认为 "`File`"，这意味着仅从终止消息文件中检索终止消息。
通过将 `terminationMessagePolicy` 设置为 "`FallbackToLogsOnError`"，你就可以告诉 Kubernetes，在容器因错误退出时，如果终止消息文件为空，则使用容器日志输出的最后一块作为终止消息。
日志输出限制为 2048 字节或 80 行，以较小者为准。

## {{% heading "whatsnext" %}}

<!--
* See the `terminationMessagePath` field in
  [Container](/docs/reference/generated/kubernetes-api/{{< param "version" >}}/#container-v1-core).
* Learn about [retrieving logs](/docs/concepts/cluster-administration/logging/).
* Learn about [Go templates](https://golang.org/pkg/text/template/).
-->

* 参考 [Container](/docs/reference/generated/kubernetes-api/{{< param "version" >}}/#container-v1-core)
  资源的 `terminationMessagePath` 字段。
* 了解[接收日志](/zh-cn/docs/concepts/cluster-administration/logging/)。
* 了解 [Go 模版](https://golang.org/pkg/text/template/)。

Commit message:

[zh-cn] resync: determine-reason-pod-failure.md
Signed-off-by: Hu Shuai <hus.fnst@fujitsu.com>

content/zh-cn/docs/tasks/debug/debug-application/determine-reason-pod-failure.md, after:

---
title: 确定 Pod 失败的原因
content_type: task
---

<!--
title: Determine the Reason for Pod Failure
content_type: task
-->

<!-- overview -->

<!--
This page shows how to write and read a Container
termination message.
-->
本文介绍如何编写和读取容器的终止消息。

<!--
Termination messages provide a way for containers to write
information about fatal events to a location where it can
be easily retrieved and surfaced by tools like dashboards
and monitoring software. In most cases, information that you
put in a termination message should also be written to
the general
[Kubernetes logs](/docs/concepts/cluster-administration/logging/).
-->
终止消息为容器提供了一种方法，可以将有关致命事件的信息写入某个位置，
在该位置可以通过仪表板和监控软件等工具轻松检索和显示致命事件。
在大多数情况下，你放入终止消息中的信息也应该写入
[常规 Kubernetes 日志](/zh-cn/docs/concepts/cluster-administration/logging/)。

## {{% heading "prerequisites" %}}

{{< include "task-tutorial-prereqs.md" >}} {{< version-check >}}

<!-- steps -->

<!--
## Writing and reading a termination message

In this exercise, you create a Pod that runs one container.
The configuration file specifies a command that runs when
the container starts.
-->
## 读写终止消息

在本练习中，你将创建运行一个容器的 Pod。
配置文件指定在容器启动时要运行的命令。

{{< codenew file="debug/termination.yaml" >}}

<!-- 1. Create a Pod based on the YAML configuration file: -->
1. 基于 YAML 配置文件创建 Pod：

        kubectl apply -f https://k8s.io/examples/debug/termination.yaml   

   <!--
   In the YAML file, in the `command` and `args` fields, you can see that the
   container sleeps for 10 seconds and then writes "Sleep expired" to
   the `/dev/termination-log` file. After the container writes
   the "Sleep expired" message, it terminates.
   -->
   YAML 文件中，在 `command` 和 `args` 字段，你可以看到容器休眠 10 秒然后将 "Sleep expired"
   写入 `/dev/termination-log` 文件。
   容器写完 "Sleep expired" 消息后就终止了。

<!-- 1. Display information about the Pod: -->
1. 显示 Pod 的信息：

        kubectl get pod termination-demo

   <!--Repeat the preceding command until the Pod is no longer running.-->
   重复前面的命令直到 Pod 不再运行。

<!-- 1. Display detailed information about the Pod: -->
1. 显示 Pod 的详细信息：

        kubectl get pod termination-demo --output=yaml

   <!--The output includes the "Sleep expired" message:-->
   输出结果包含 "Sleep expired" 消息：

        apiVersion: v1
        kind: Pod
        ...
            lastState:
              terminated:
                containerID: ...
                exitCode: 0
                finishedAt: ...
                message: |
                  Sleep expired
                ...

<!-- 
1. Use a Go template to filter the output so that it includes
only the termination message:
-->
1. 使用 Go 模板过滤输出结果，使其只含有终止消息：

        kubectl get pod termination-demo -o go-template="{{range .status.containerStatuses}}{{.lastState.terminated.message}}{{end}}"
   
<!--
If you are running a multi-container pod, you can use a Go template to include the container's name. By doing so, you can discover which of the containers is failing:
-->
如果你正在运行多容器 Pod，则可以使用 Go 模板来包含容器的名称。这样，你可以发现哪些容器出现故障:

```shell
kubectl get pod multi-container-pod -o go-template='{{range .status.containerStatuses}}{{printf "%s:\n%s\n\n" .name .lastState.terminated.message}}{{end}}'
```

<!--
## Customizing the termination message

Kubernetes retrieves termination messages from the termination message file
specified in the `terminationMessagePath` field of a Container, which as a default
value of `/dev/termination-log`. By customizing this field, you can tell Kubernetes
to use a different file. Kubernetes use the contents from the specified file to
populate the Container's status message on both success and failure.
-->
## 定制终止消息

Kubernetes 从容器的 `terminationMessagePath` 字段中指定的终止消息文件中检索终止消息，
默认值为 `/dev/termination-log`。
通过定制这个字段，你可以告诉 Kubernetes 使用不同的文件。
Kubernetes 使用指定文件中的内容在成功和失败时填充容器的状态消息。

<!--
The termination message is intended to be brief final status, such as an assertion failure message.
The kubelet truncates messages that are longer than 4096 bytes.

The total message length across all containers is limited to 12KiB, divided equally among each container.
For example, if there are 12 containers (`initContainers` or `containers`), each has 1024 bytes of available termination message space.

The default termination message path is `/dev/termination-log`.
You cannot set the termination message path after a Pod is launched
-->
终止消息旨在简要说明最终状态，例如断言失败消息。 
kubelet 会截断长度超过 4096 字节的消息。

所有容器的总消息长度限制为 12KiB，将会在每个容器之间平均分配。 
例如，如果有 12 个容器（`initContainers` 或 `containers`）， 
每个容器都有 1024 字节的可用终止消息空间。

默认的终止消息路径是 `/dev/termination-log`。 
Pod 启动后不能设置终止消息路径。

<!--
In the following example, the container writes termination messages to
`/tmp/my-log` for Kubernetes to retrieve:
-->
在下例中，容器将终止消息写入 `/tmp/my-log` 给 Kubernetes 来接收：

```yaml
apiVersion: v1
kind: Pod
metadata:
  name: msg-path-demo
spec:
  containers:
  - name: msg-path-demo-container
    image: debian
    terminationMessagePath: "/tmp/my-log"
```

<!--
Moreover, users can set the `terminationMessagePolicy` field of a Container for
further customization. This field defaults to "`File`" which means the termination
messages are retrieved only from the termination message file. By setting the
`terminationMessagePolicy` to "`FallbackToLogsOnError`", you can tell Kubernetes
to use the last chunk of container log output if the termination message file
is empty and the container exited with an error. The log output is limited to
2048 bytes or 80 lines, whichever is smaller.
-->
此外，用户可以设置容器的 `terminationMessagePolicy` 字段，以便进一步自定义。
此字段默认为 "`File`"，这意味着仅从终止消息文件中检索终止消息。
通过将 `terminationMessagePolicy` 设置为 "`FallbackToLogsOnError`"，你就可以告诉 Kubernetes，在容器因错误退出时，如果终止消息文件为空，则使用容器日志输出的最后一块作为终止消息。
日志输出限制为 2048 字节或 80 行，以较小者为准。

## {{% heading "whatsnext" %}}

<!--
* See the `terminationMessagePath` field in
  [Container](/docs/reference/generated/kubernetes-api/{{< param "version" >}}/#container-v1-core).
* Learn about [retrieving logs](/docs/concepts/cluster-administration/logging/).
* Learn about [Go templates](https://golang.org/pkg/text/template/).
-->

* 参考 [Container](/docs/reference/generated/kubernetes-api/{{< param "version" >}}/#container-v1-core)
  资源的 `terminationMessagePath` 字段。
* 了解[接收日志](/zh-cn/docs/concepts/cluster-administration/logging/)。
* 了解 [Go 模版](https://golang.org/pkg/text/template/)。
