content/en/docs/concepts/services-networking/dns-pod-service.md, before:

---
reviewers:
- davidopp
- thockin
title: DNS for Services and Pods
content_type: concept
weight: 20
---
<!-- overview -->

Kubernetes creates DNS records for services and pods. You can contact
services with consistent DNS names instead of IP addresses. 

<!-- body -->

## Introduction

Kubernetes DNS schedules a DNS Pod and Service on the cluster, and configures
the kubelets to tell individual containers to use the DNS Service's IP to
resolve DNS names.

Every Service defined in the cluster (including the DNS server itself) is
assigned a DNS name. By default, a client Pod's DNS search list includes the 
Pod's own namespace and the cluster's default domain. 

### Namespaces of Services 

A DNS query may return different results based on the namespace of the pod making 
it. DNS queries that don't specify a namespace are limited to the pod's 
namespace. Access services in other namespaces by specifying it in the DNS query. 

For example, consider a pod in a `test` namespace. A `data` service is in 
the `prod` namespace. 

A query for `data` returns no results, because it uses the pod's `test` namespace. 

A query for `data.prod` returns the intended result, because it specifies the 
namespace. 

DNS queries may be expanded using the pod's `/etc/resolv.conf`. Kubelet 
sets this file for each pod. For example, a query for just `data` may be 
expanded to `data.test.svc.cluster.local`. The values of the `search` option 
are used to expand queries. To learn more about DNS queries, see 
[the `resolv.conf` manual page.](https://www.man7.org/linux/man-pages/man5/resolv.conf.5.html) 

```
nameserver 10.32.0.10
search <namespace>.svc.cluster.local svc.cluster.local cluster.local
options ndots:5
```

In summary, a pod in the _test_ namespace can successfully resolve either 
`data.prod` or `data.prod.svc.cluster.local`.

### DNS Records

What objects get DNS records?

1. Services
2. Pods

The following sections detail the supported DNS record types and layout that is
supported.  Any other layout or names or queries that happen to work are
considered implementation details and are subject to change without warning.
For more up-to-date specification, see
[Kubernetes DNS-Based Service Discovery](https://github.com/kubernetes/dns/blob/master/docs/specification.md).

## Services

### A/AAAA records

"Normal" (not headless) Services are assigned a DNS A or AAAA record,
depending on the IP family of the service, for a name of the form
`my-svc.my-namespace.svc.cluster-domain.example`.  This resolves to the cluster IP
of the Service.

"Headless" (without a cluster IP) Services are also assigned a DNS A or AAAA record,
depending on the IP family of the service, for a name of the form
`my-svc.my-namespace.svc.cluster-domain.example`.  Unlike normal
Services, this resolves to the set of IPs of the pods selected by the Service.
Clients are expected to consume the set or else use standard round-robin
selection from the set.

### SRV records

SRV Records are created for named ports that are part of normal or [Headless
Services](/docs/concepts/services-networking/service/#headless-services).
For each named port, the SRV record would have the form
`_my-port-name._my-port-protocol.my-svc.my-namespace.svc.cluster-domain.example`.
For a regular service, this resolves to the port number and the domain name:
`my-svc.my-namespace.svc.cluster-domain.example`.
For a headless service, this resolves to multiple answers, one for each pod
that is backing the service, and contains the port number and the domain name of the pod
of the form `auto-generated-name.my-svc.my-namespace.svc.cluster-domain.example`.

## Pods

### A/AAAA records

In general a pod has the following DNS resolution:

`pod-ip-address.my-namespace.pod.cluster-domain.example`.

For example, if a pod in the `default` namespace has the IP address 172.17.0.3,
and the domain name for your cluster is `cluster.local`, then the Pod has a DNS name:

`172-17-0-3.default.pod.cluster.local`.

Any pods exposed by a Service have the following DNS resolution available:

`pod-ip-address.service-name.my-namespace.svc.cluster-domain.example`.

### Pod's hostname and subdomain fields

Currently when a pod is created, its hostname is the Pod's `metadata.name` value.

The Pod spec has an optional `hostname` field, which can be used to specify the
Pod's hostname. When specified, it takes precedence over the Pod's name to be
the hostname of the pod. For example, given a Pod with `hostname` set to
"`my-host`", the Pod will have its hostname set to "`my-host`".

The Pod spec also has an optional `subdomain` field which can be used to specify
its subdomain. For example, a Pod with `hostname` set to "`foo`", and `subdomain`
set to "`bar`", in namespace "`my-namespace`", will have the fully qualified
domain name (FQDN) "`foo.bar.my-namespace.svc.cluster-domain.example`".

Example:

```yaml
apiVersion: v1
kind: Service
metadata:
  name: default-subdomain
spec:
  selector:
    name: busybox
  clusterIP: None
  ports:
  - name: foo # Actually, no port is needed.
    port: 1234
    targetPort: 1234
---
apiVersion: v1
kind: Pod
metadata:
  name: busybox1
  labels:
    name: busybox
spec:
  hostname: busybox-1
  subdomain: default-subdomain
  containers:
  - image: busybox:1.28
    command:
      - sleep
      - "3600"
    name: busybox
---
apiVersion: v1
kind: Pod
metadata:
  name: busybox2
  labels:
    name: busybox
spec:
  hostname: busybox-2
  subdomain: default-subdomain
  containers:
  - image: busybox:1.28
    command:
      - sleep
      - "3600"
    name: busybox
```

If there exists a headless service in the same namespace as the pod and with
the same name as the subdomain, the cluster's DNS Server also returns an A or AAAA
record for the Pod's fully qualified hostname.
For example, given a Pod with the hostname set to "`busybox-1`" and the subdomain set to
"`default-subdomain`", and a headless Service named "`default-subdomain`" in
the same namespace, the pod will see its own FQDN as
"`busybox-1.default-subdomain.my-namespace.svc.cluster-domain.example`". DNS serves an
A or AAAA record at that name, pointing to the Pod's IP. Both pods "`busybox1`" and
"`busybox2`" can have their distinct A or AAAA records.

The Endpoints object can specify the `hostname` for any endpoint addresses,
along with its IP.

{{< note >}}
Because A or AAAA records are not created for Pod names, `hostname` is required for the Pod's A or AAAA
record to be created. A Pod with no `hostname` but with `subdomain` will only create the
A or AAAA record for the headless service (`default-subdomain.my-namespace.svc.cluster-domain.example`),
pointing to the Pod's IP address. Also, Pod needs to become ready in order to have a
record unless `publishNotReadyAddresses=True` is set on the Service.
{{< /note >}}

### Pod's setHostnameAsFQDN field {#pod-sethostnameasfqdn-field}

{{< feature-state for_k8s_version="v1.22" state="stable" >}}

When a Pod is configured to have fully qualified domain name (FQDN), its hostname is the short hostname. For example, if you have a Pod with the fully qualified domain name `busybox-1.default-subdomain.my-namespace.svc.cluster-domain.example`, then by default the `hostname` command inside that Pod returns `busybox-1` and  the `hostname --fqdn` command returns the FQDN.

When you set `setHostnameAsFQDN: true` in the Pod spec, the kubelet writes the Pod's FQDN into the hostname for that Pod's namespace. In this case, both `hostname` and `hostname --fqdn` return the Pod's FQDN.

{{< note >}}
In Linux, the hostname field of the kernel (the `nodename` field of `struct utsname`) is limited to 64 characters.

If a Pod enables this feature and its FQDN is longer than 64 character, it will fail to start. The Pod will remain in `Pending` status (`ContainerCreating` as seen by `kubectl`) generating error events, such as Failed to construct FQDN from pod hostname and cluster domain, FQDN `long-FQDN` is too long (64 characters is the max, 70 characters requested). One way of improving user experience for this scenario is to create an [admission webhook controller](/docs/reference/access-authn-authz/extensible-admission-controllers/#admission-webhooks) to control FQDN size when users create top level objects, for example, Deployment.
{{< /note >}}

### Pod's DNS Policy

DNS policies can be set on a per-pod basis. Currently Kubernetes supports the
following pod-specific DNS policies. These policies are specified in the
`dnsPolicy` field of a Pod Spec.

- "`Default`": The Pod inherits the name resolution configuration from the node
  that the pods run on.
  See [related discussion](/docs/tasks/administer-cluster/dns-custom-nameservers)
  for more details.
- "`ClusterFirst`": Any DNS query that does not match the configured cluster
  domain suffix, such as "`www.kubernetes.io`", is forwarded to the upstream
  nameserver inherited from the node. Cluster administrators may have extra
  stub-domain and upstream DNS servers configured.
  See [related discussion](/docs/tasks/administer-cluster/dns-custom-nameservers)
  for details on how DNS queries are handled in those cases.
- "`ClusterFirstWithHostNet`": For Pods running with hostNetwork, you should
  explicitly set its DNS policy "`ClusterFirstWithHostNet`".
- "`None`": It allows a Pod to ignore DNS settings from the Kubernetes
  environment. All DNS settings are supposed to be provided using the
  `dnsConfig` field in the Pod Spec.
  See [Pod's DNS config](#pod-dns-config) subsection below.

{{< note >}}
"Default" is not the default DNS policy. If `dnsPolicy` is not
explicitly specified, then "ClusterFirst" is used.
{{< /note >}}


The example below shows a Pod with its DNS policy set to
"`ClusterFirstWithHostNet`" because it has `hostNetwork` set to `true`.

```yaml
apiVersion: v1
kind: Pod
metadata:
  name: busybox
  namespace: default
spec:
  containers:
  - image: busybox:1.28
    command:
      - sleep
      - "3600"
    imagePullPolicy: IfNotPresent
    name: busybox
  restartPolicy: Always
  hostNetwork: true
  dnsPolicy: ClusterFirstWithHostNet
```

### Pod's DNS Config {#pod-dns-config}

{{< feature-state for_k8s_version="v1.14" state="stable" >}}

Pod's DNS Config allows users more control on the DNS settings for a Pod.

The `dnsConfig` field is optional and it can work with any `dnsPolicy` settings.
However, when a Pod's `dnsPolicy` is set to "`None`", the `dnsConfig` field has
to be specified.

Below are the properties a user can specify in the `dnsConfig` field:

- `nameservers`: a list of IP addresses that will be used as DNS servers for the
  Pod. There can be at most 3 IP addresses specified. When the Pod's `dnsPolicy`
  is set to "`None`", the list must contain at least one IP address, otherwise
  this property is optional.
  The servers listed will be combined to the base nameservers generated from the
  specified DNS policy with duplicate addresses removed.
- `searches`: a list of DNS search domains for hostname lookup in the Pod.
  This property is optional. When specified, the provided list will be merged
  into the base search domain names generated from the chosen DNS policy.
  Duplicate domain names are removed.
  Kubernetes allows for at most 6 search domains.
- `options`: an optional list of objects where each object may have a `name`
  property (required) and a `value` property (optional). The contents in this
  property will be merged to the options generated from the specified DNS policy.
  Duplicate entries are removed.

The following is an example Pod with custom DNS settings:

{{< codenew file="service/networking/custom-dns.yaml" >}}

When the Pod above is created, the container `test` gets the following contents
in its `/etc/resolv.conf` file:

```
nameserver 1.2.3.4
search ns1.svc.cluster-domain.example my.dns.search.suffix
options ndots:2 edns0
```

For IPv6 setup, search path and name server should be setup like this:

```shell
kubectl exec -it dns-example -- cat /etc/resolv.conf
```
The output is similar to this:
```shell
nameserver fd00:79:30::a
search default.svc.cluster-domain.example svc.cluster-domain.example cluster-domain.example
options ndots:5
```

#### Expanded DNS Configuration

{{< feature-state for_k8s_version="1.22" state="alpha" >}}

By default, for Pod's DNS Config, Kubernetes allows at most 6 search domains and
a list of search domains of up to 256 characters.

If the feature gate `ExpandedDNSConfig` is enabled for the kube-apiserver and
the kubelet, it is allowed for Kubernetes to have at most 32 search domains and
a list of search domains of up to 2048 characters.

## {{% heading "whatsnext" %}}


For guidance on administering DNS configurations, check
[Configure DNS Service](/docs/tasks/administer-cluster/dns-custom-nameservers/)

Commit message:

Windows documentation overhaul (#33582)
* Move Windows storage concepts to a new page

- Move FlexVolume plugins section to docs/concepts/storage/volumes.md
- Move CSI plugins section to en/docs/concepts/storage/volumes.md
- Move in-tree plugins section to en/docs/concepts/storage/volumes.md

* Moving networking related content in
/docs/setup/production-environment/windows to various locations
- Moving windows DNS limitations to/docs/concepts/services-networking/dns-pod-service.md
- Moving windows session sticky time disclaimer to /docs/concepts/services-networking/service.md
- Moving windows dual stack support info to /docs/concepts/services-networking/dual-stack.md
- Moving generic Windows content to
/docs/concepts/services-networking/windows-networking.md

Signed-off-by: Mark Rossetti <marosset@microsoft.com>

* Moving Windows troubleshooting topics to /tasks/debug-application-cluster/

Signed-off-by: Mark Rossetti <marosset@microsoft.com>

* Moving windows containers user guide out of /setup/production-environment/

Signed-off-by: Mark Rossetti <marosset@microsoft.com>

* fixup! Moving windows containers user guide out of /setup/production-environment/

* moving intro-windows-in-kubernetes content out of /setup/production-environment/

Signed-off-by: Mark Rossetti <marosset@microsoft.com>

Co-authored-by: Aravindh Puthiyaparambil <aravindh@redhat.com>

content/en/docs/concepts/services-networking/dns-pod-service.md, after:

---
reviewers:
- davidopp
- thockin
title: DNS for Services and Pods
content_type: concept
weight: 20
---
<!-- overview -->

Kubernetes creates DNS records for services and pods. You can contact
services with consistent DNS names instead of IP addresses. 

<!-- body -->

## Introduction

Kubernetes DNS schedules a DNS Pod and Service on the cluster, and configures
the kubelets to tell individual containers to use the DNS Service's IP to
resolve DNS names.

Every Service defined in the cluster (including the DNS server itself) is
assigned a DNS name. By default, a client Pod's DNS search list includes the 
Pod's own namespace and the cluster's default domain. 

### Namespaces of Services 

A DNS query may return different results based on the namespace of the pod making 
it. DNS queries that don't specify a namespace are limited to the pod's 
namespace. Access services in other namespaces by specifying it in the DNS query. 

For example, consider a pod in a `test` namespace. A `data` service is in 
the `prod` namespace. 

A query for `data` returns no results, because it uses the pod's `test` namespace. 

A query for `data.prod` returns the intended result, because it specifies the 
namespace. 

DNS queries may be expanded using the pod's `/etc/resolv.conf`. Kubelet 
sets this file for each pod. For example, a query for just `data` may be 
expanded to `data.test.svc.cluster.local`. The values of the `search` option 
are used to expand queries. To learn more about DNS queries, see 
[the `resolv.conf` manual page.](https://www.man7.org/linux/man-pages/man5/resolv.conf.5.html) 

```
nameserver 10.32.0.10
search <namespace>.svc.cluster.local svc.cluster.local cluster.local
options ndots:5
```

In summary, a pod in the _test_ namespace can successfully resolve either 
`data.prod` or `data.prod.svc.cluster.local`.

### DNS Records

What objects get DNS records?

1. Services
2. Pods

The following sections detail the supported DNS record types and layout that is
supported.  Any other layout or names or queries that happen to work are
considered implementation details and are subject to change without warning.
For more up-to-date specification, see
[Kubernetes DNS-Based Service Discovery](https://github.com/kubernetes/dns/blob/master/docs/specification.md).

## Services

### A/AAAA records

"Normal" (not headless) Services are assigned a DNS A or AAAA record,
depending on the IP family of the service, for a name of the form
`my-svc.my-namespace.svc.cluster-domain.example`.  This resolves to the cluster IP
of the Service.

"Headless" (without a cluster IP) Services are also assigned a DNS A or AAAA record,
depending on the IP family of the service, for a name of the form
`my-svc.my-namespace.svc.cluster-domain.example`.  Unlike normal
Services, this resolves to the set of IPs of the pods selected by the Service.
Clients are expected to consume the set or else use standard round-robin
selection from the set.

### SRV records

SRV Records are created for named ports that are part of normal or [Headless
Services](/docs/concepts/services-networking/service/#headless-services).
For each named port, the SRV record would have the form
`_my-port-name._my-port-protocol.my-svc.my-namespace.svc.cluster-domain.example`.
For a regular service, this resolves to the port number and the domain name:
`my-svc.my-namespace.svc.cluster-domain.example`.
For a headless service, this resolves to multiple answers, one for each pod
that is backing the service, and contains the port number and the domain name of the pod
of the form `auto-generated-name.my-svc.my-namespace.svc.cluster-domain.example`.

## Pods

### A/AAAA records

In general a pod has the following DNS resolution:

`pod-ip-address.my-namespace.pod.cluster-domain.example`.

For example, if a pod in the `default` namespace has the IP address 172.17.0.3,
and the domain name for your cluster is `cluster.local`, then the Pod has a DNS name:

`172-17-0-3.default.pod.cluster.local`.

Any pods exposed by a Service have the following DNS resolution available:

`pod-ip-address.service-name.my-namespace.svc.cluster-domain.example`.

### Pod's hostname and subdomain fields

Currently when a pod is created, its hostname is the Pod's `metadata.name` value.

The Pod spec has an optional `hostname` field, which can be used to specify the
Pod's hostname. When specified, it takes precedence over the Pod's name to be
the hostname of the pod. For example, given a Pod with `hostname` set to
"`my-host`", the Pod will have its hostname set to "`my-host`".

The Pod spec also has an optional `subdomain` field which can be used to specify
its subdomain. For example, a Pod with `hostname` set to "`foo`", and `subdomain`
set to "`bar`", in namespace "`my-namespace`", will have the fully qualified
domain name (FQDN) "`foo.bar.my-namespace.svc.cluster-domain.example`".

Example:

```yaml
apiVersion: v1
kind: Service
metadata:
  name: default-subdomain
spec:
  selector:
    name: busybox
  clusterIP: None
  ports:
  - name: foo # Actually, no port is needed.
    port: 1234
    targetPort: 1234
---
apiVersion: v1
kind: Pod
metadata:
  name: busybox1
  labels:
    name: busybox
spec:
  hostname: busybox-1
  subdomain: default-subdomain
  containers:
  - image: busybox:1.28
    command:
      - sleep
      - "3600"
    name: busybox
---
apiVersion: v1
kind: Pod
metadata:
  name: busybox2
  labels:
    name: busybox
spec:
  hostname: busybox-2
  subdomain: default-subdomain
  containers:
  - image: busybox:1.28
    command:
      - sleep
      - "3600"
    name: busybox
```

If there exists a headless service in the same namespace as the pod and with
the same name as the subdomain, the cluster's DNS Server also returns an A or AAAA
record for the Pod's fully qualified hostname.
For example, given a Pod with the hostname set to "`busybox-1`" and the subdomain set to
"`default-subdomain`", and a headless Service named "`default-subdomain`" in
the same namespace, the pod will see its own FQDN as
"`busybox-1.default-subdomain.my-namespace.svc.cluster-domain.example`". DNS serves an
A or AAAA record at that name, pointing to the Pod's IP. Both pods "`busybox1`" and
"`busybox2`" can have their distinct A or AAAA records.

The Endpoints object can specify the `hostname` for any endpoint addresses,
along with its IP.

{{< note >}}
Because A or AAAA records are not created for Pod names, `hostname` is required for the Pod's A or AAAA
record to be created. A Pod with no `hostname` but with `subdomain` will only create the
A or AAAA record for the headless service (`default-subdomain.my-namespace.svc.cluster-domain.example`),
pointing to the Pod's IP address. Also, Pod needs to become ready in order to have a
record unless `publishNotReadyAddresses=True` is set on the Service.
{{< /note >}}

### Pod's setHostnameAsFQDN field {#pod-sethostnameasfqdn-field}

{{< feature-state for_k8s_version="v1.22" state="stable" >}}

When a Pod is configured to have fully qualified domain name (FQDN), its hostname is the short hostname. For example, if you have a Pod with the fully qualified domain name `busybox-1.default-subdomain.my-namespace.svc.cluster-domain.example`, then by default the `hostname` command inside that Pod returns `busybox-1` and  the `hostname --fqdn` command returns the FQDN.

When you set `setHostnameAsFQDN: true` in the Pod spec, the kubelet writes the Pod's FQDN into the hostname for that Pod's namespace. In this case, both `hostname` and `hostname --fqdn` return the Pod's FQDN.

{{< note >}}
In Linux, the hostname field of the kernel (the `nodename` field of `struct utsname`) is limited to 64 characters.

If a Pod enables this feature and its FQDN is longer than 64 character, it will fail to start. The Pod will remain in `Pending` status (`ContainerCreating` as seen by `kubectl`) generating error events, such as Failed to construct FQDN from pod hostname and cluster domain, FQDN `long-FQDN` is too long (64 characters is the max, 70 characters requested). One way of improving user experience for this scenario is to create an [admission webhook controller](/docs/reference/access-authn-authz/extensible-admission-controllers/#admission-webhooks) to control FQDN size when users create top level objects, for example, Deployment.
{{< /note >}}

### Pod's DNS Policy

DNS policies can be set on a per-pod basis. Currently Kubernetes supports the
following pod-specific DNS policies. These policies are specified in the
`dnsPolicy` field of a Pod Spec.

- "`Default`": The Pod inherits the name resolution configuration from the node
  that the pods run on.
  See [related discussion](/docs/tasks/administer-cluster/dns-custom-nameservers)
  for more details.
- "`ClusterFirst`": Any DNS query that does not match the configured cluster
  domain suffix, such as "`www.kubernetes.io`", is forwarded to the upstream
  nameserver inherited from the node. Cluster administrators may have extra
  stub-domain and upstream DNS servers configured.
  See [related discussion](/docs/tasks/administer-cluster/dns-custom-nameservers)
  for details on how DNS queries are handled in those cases.
- "`ClusterFirstWithHostNet`": For Pods running with hostNetwork, you should
  explicitly set its DNS policy "`ClusterFirstWithHostNet`".
  - Note: This is not supported on Windows. See [below](#dns-windows) for details
- "`None`": It allows a Pod to ignore DNS settings from the Kubernetes
  environment. All DNS settings are supposed to be provided using the
  `dnsConfig` field in the Pod Spec.
  See [Pod's DNS config](#pod-dns-config) subsection below.

{{< note >}}
"Default" is not the default DNS policy. If `dnsPolicy` is not
explicitly specified, then "ClusterFirst" is used.
{{< /note >}}


The example below shows a Pod with its DNS policy set to
"`ClusterFirstWithHostNet`" because it has `hostNetwork` set to `true`.

```yaml
apiVersion: v1
kind: Pod
metadata:
  name: busybox
  namespace: default
spec:
  containers:
  - image: busybox:1.28
    command:
      - sleep
      - "3600"
    imagePullPolicy: IfNotPresent
    name: busybox
  restartPolicy: Always
  hostNetwork: true
  dnsPolicy: ClusterFirstWithHostNet
```

### Pod's DNS Config {#pod-dns-config}

{{< feature-state for_k8s_version="v1.14" state="stable" >}}

Pod's DNS Config allows users more control on the DNS settings for a Pod.

The `dnsConfig` field is optional and it can work with any `dnsPolicy` settings.
However, when a Pod's `dnsPolicy` is set to "`None`", the `dnsConfig` field has
to be specified.

Below are the properties a user can specify in the `dnsConfig` field:

- `nameservers`: a list of IP addresses that will be used as DNS servers for the
  Pod. There can be at most 3 IP addresses specified. When the Pod's `dnsPolicy`
  is set to "`None`", the list must contain at least one IP address, otherwise
  this property is optional.
  The servers listed will be combined to the base nameservers generated from the
  specified DNS policy with duplicate addresses removed.
- `searches`: a list of DNS search domains for hostname lookup in the Pod.
  This property is optional. When specified, the provided list will be merged
  into the base search domain names generated from the chosen DNS policy.
  Duplicate domain names are removed.
  Kubernetes allows for at most 6 search domains.
- `options`: an optional list of objects where each object may have a `name`
  property (required) and a `value` property (optional). The contents in this
  property will be merged to the options generated from the specified DNS policy.
  Duplicate entries are removed.

The following is an example Pod with custom DNS settings:

{{< codenew file="service/networking/custom-dns.yaml" >}}

When the Pod above is created, the container `test` gets the following contents
in its `/etc/resolv.conf` file:

```
nameserver 1.2.3.4
search ns1.svc.cluster-domain.example my.dns.search.suffix
options ndots:2 edns0
```

For IPv6 setup, search path and name server should be setup like this:

```shell
kubectl exec -it dns-example -- cat /etc/resolv.conf
```
The output is similar to this:
```shell
nameserver fd00:79:30::a
search default.svc.cluster-domain.example svc.cluster-domain.example cluster-domain.example
options ndots:5
```

#### Expanded DNS Configuration

{{< feature-state for_k8s_version="1.22" state="alpha" >}}

By default, for Pod's DNS Config, Kubernetes allows at most 6 search domains and
a list of search domains of up to 256 characters.

If the feature gate `ExpandedDNSConfig` is enabled for the kube-apiserver and
the kubelet, it is allowed for Kubernetes to have at most 32 search domains and
a list of search domains of up to 2048 characters.

## DNS resolution on Windows nodes {#dns-windows}

- ClusterFirstWithHostNet is not supported for pods that run on Windows nodes.
  Windows treats all names with a `.` as a FQDN and skips FQDN resolution.
- On Windows, there are multiple DNS resolvers that can be used. As these come with
  slightly different behaviors, using the
  [`Resolve-DNSName`](https://docs.microsoft.com/powershell/module/dnsclient/resolve-dnsname)
  powershell cmdlet for name query resolutions is recommended.
- On Linux, you have a DNS suffix list, which is used after resolution of a name as fully
  qualified has failed.
  On Windows, you can only have 1 DNS suffix, which is the DNS suffix associated with that
  pod's namespace (example: `mydns.svc.cluster.local`). Windows can resolve FQDNs, services,
  or network name which can be resolved with this single suffix. For example, a pod spawned
  in the `default` namespace, will have the DNS suffix `default.svc.cluster.local`.
  Inside a Windows pod, you can resolve both `kubernetes.default.svc.cluster.local`
  and `kubernetes`, but not the partially qualified names (`kubernetes.default` or
  `kubernetes.default.svc`).

## {{% heading "whatsnext" %}}

For guidance on administering DNS configurations, check
[Configure DNS Service](/docs/tasks/administer-cluster/dns-custom-nameservers/)
