content/en/docs/concepts/scheduling-eviction/taint-and-toleration.md, before:

---
reviewers:
- davidopp
- kevin-wangzefeng
- bsalamat
title: Taints and Tolerations
content_type: concept
weight: 40
---


<!-- overview -->
[_Node affinity_](/docs/concepts/scheduling-eviction/assign-pod-node/#affinity-and-anti-affinity)
is a property of {{< glossary_tooltip text="Pods" term_id="pod" >}} that *attracts* them to
a set of {{< glossary_tooltip text="nodes" term_id="node" >}} (either as a preference or a
hard requirement). _Taints_ are the opposite -- they allow a node to repel a set of pods.

_Tolerations_ are applied to pods, if it matches the Taints in any node it is scheduled, but it does not guarantee as scheduler has other paramters to decide.

Taints and tolerations work together to ensure that pods are not scheduled
onto inappropriate nodes. One or more taints are applied to a node; this
marks that the node should not accept any pods that do not tolerate the taints.



<!-- body -->

## Concepts

You add a taint to a node using [kubectl taint](/docs/reference/generated/kubectl/kubectl-commands#taint).
For example,

```shell
kubectl taint nodes node1 key1=value1:NoSchedule
```

places a taint on node `node1`. The taint has key `key1`, value `value1`, and taint effect `NoSchedule`.
This means that no pod will be able to schedule onto `node1` unless it has a matching toleration.

To remove the taint added by the command above, you can run:
```shell
kubectl taint nodes node1 key1=value1:NoSchedule-
```

You specify a toleration for a pod in the PodSpec. Both of the following tolerations "match" the
taint created by the `kubectl taint` line above, and thus a pod with either toleration would be able
to schedule onto `node1`:

```yaml
tolerations:
- key: "key1"
  operator: "Equal"
  value: "value1"
  effect: "NoSchedule"
```

```yaml
tolerations:
- key: "key1"
  operator: "Exists"
  effect: "NoSchedule"
```

Here's an example of a pod that uses tolerations:

{{< codenew file="pods/pod-with-toleration.yaml" >}}

The default value for `operator` is `Equal`.

A toleration "matches" a taint if the keys are the same and the effects are the same, and:

* the `operator` is `Exists` (in which case no `value` should be specified), or
* the `operator` is `Equal` and the `value`s are equal.

{{< note >}}

There are two special cases:

An empty `key` with operator `Exists` matches all keys, values and effects which means this
will tolerate everything.

An empty `effect` matches all effects with key `key1`.

{{< /note >}}

The above example used `effect` of `NoSchedule`. Alternatively, you can use `effect` of `PreferNoSchedule`.
This is a "preference" or "soft" version of `NoSchedule` -- the system will *try* to avoid placing a
pod that does not tolerate the taint on the node, but it is not required. The third kind of `effect` is
`NoExecute`, described later.

You can put multiple taints on the same node and multiple tolerations on the same pod.
The way Kubernetes processes multiple taints and tolerations is like a filter: start
with all of a node's taints, then ignore the ones for which the pod has a matching toleration; the
remaining un-ignored taints have the indicated effects on the pod. In particular,

* if there is at least one un-ignored taint with effect `NoSchedule` then Kubernetes will not schedule
the pod onto that node
* if there is no un-ignored taint with effect `NoSchedule` but there is at least one un-ignored taint with
effect `PreferNoSchedule` then Kubernetes will *try* to not schedule the pod onto the node
* if there is at least one un-ignored taint with effect `NoExecute` then the pod will be evicted from
the node (if it is already running on the node), and will not be
scheduled onto the node (if it is not yet running on the node).

For example, imagine you taint a node like this

```shell
kubectl taint nodes node1 key1=value1:NoSchedule
kubectl taint nodes node1 key1=value1:NoExecute
kubectl taint nodes node1 key2=value2:NoSchedule
```

And a pod has two tolerations:

```yaml
tolerations:
- key: "key1"
  operator: "Equal"
  value: "value1"
  effect: "NoSchedule"
- key: "key1"
  operator: "Equal"
  value: "value1"
  effect: "NoExecute"
```

In this case, the pod will not be able to schedule onto the node, because there is no
toleration matching the third taint. But it will be able to continue running if it is
already running on the node when the taint is added, because the third taint is the only
one of the three that is not tolerated by the pod.

Normally, if a taint with effect `NoExecute` is added to a node, then any pods that do
not tolerate the taint will be evicted immediately, and pods that do tolerate the
taint will never be evicted. However, a toleration with `NoExecute` effect can specify
an optional `tolerationSeconds` field that dictates how long the pod will stay bound
to the node after the taint is added. For example,

```yaml
tolerations:
- key: "key1"
  operator: "Equal"
  value: "value1"
  effect: "NoExecute"
  tolerationSeconds: 3600
```

means that if this pod is running and a matching taint is added to the node, then
the pod will stay bound to the node for 3600 seconds, and then be evicted. If the
taint is removed before that time, the pod will not be evicted.

## Example Use Cases

Taints and tolerations are a flexible way to steer pods *away* from nodes or evict
pods that shouldn't be running. A few of the use cases are

* **Dedicated Nodes**: If you want to dedicate a set of nodes for exclusive use by
a particular set of users, you can add a taint to those nodes (say,
`kubectl taint nodes nodename dedicated=groupName:NoSchedule`) and then add a corresponding
toleration to their pods (this would be done most easily by writing a custom
[admission controller](/docs/reference/access-authn-authz/admission-controllers/)).
The pods with the tolerations will then be allowed to use the tainted (dedicated) nodes as
well as any other nodes in the cluster. If you want to dedicate the nodes to them *and*
ensure they *only* use the dedicated nodes, then you should additionally add a label similar
to the taint to the same set of nodes (e.g. `dedicated=groupName`), and the admission
controller should additionally add a node affinity to require that the pods can only schedule
onto nodes labeled with `dedicated=groupName`.

* **Nodes with Special Hardware**: In a cluster where a small subset of nodes have specialized
hardware (for example GPUs), it is desirable to keep pods that don't need the specialized
hardware off of those nodes, thus leaving room for later-arriving pods that do need the
specialized hardware. This can be done by tainting the nodes that have the specialized
hardware (e.g. `kubectl taint nodes nodename special=true:NoSchedule` or
`kubectl taint nodes nodename special=true:PreferNoSchedule`) and adding a corresponding
toleration to pods that use the special hardware. As in the dedicated nodes use case,
it is probably easiest to apply the tolerations using a custom
[admission controller](/docs/reference/access-authn-authz/admission-controllers/).
For example, it is recommended to use [Extended
Resources](/docs/concepts/configuration/manage-resources-containers/#extended-resources)
to represent the special hardware, taint your special hardware nodes with the
extended resource name and run the
[ExtendedResourceToleration](/docs/reference/access-authn-authz/admission-controllers/#extendedresourcetoleration)
admission controller. Now, because the nodes are tainted, no pods without the
toleration will schedule on them. But when you submit a pod that requests the
extended resource, the `ExtendedResourceToleration` admission controller will
automatically add the correct toleration to the pod and that pod will schedule
on the special hardware nodes. This will make sure that these special hardware
nodes are dedicated for pods requesting such hardware and you don't have to
manually add tolerations to your pods.

* **Taint based Evictions**: A per-pod-configurable eviction behavior
when there are node problems, which is described in the next section.

## Taint based Evictions

{{< feature-state for_k8s_version="v1.18" state="stable" >}}

The `NoExecute` taint effect, mentioned above, affects pods that are already
running on the node as follows

 * pods that do not tolerate the taint are evicted immediately
 * pods that tolerate the taint without specifying `tolerationSeconds` in
   their toleration specification remain bound forever
 * pods that tolerate the taint with a specified `tolerationSeconds` remain
   bound for the specified amount of time

The node controller automatically taints a Node when certain conditions
are true. The following taints are built in:

 * `node.kubernetes.io/not-ready`: Node is not ready. This corresponds to
   the NodeCondition `Ready` being "`False`".
 * `node.kubernetes.io/unreachable`: Node is unreachable from the node
   controller. This corresponds to the NodeCondition `Ready` being "`Unknown`".
 * `node.kubernetes.io/memory-pressure`: Node has memory pressure.
 * `node.kubernetes.io/disk-pressure`: Node has disk pressure.
 * `node.kubernetes.io/pid-pressure`: Node has PID pressure.
 * `node.kubernetes.io/network-unavailable`: Node's network is unavailable.
 * `node.kubernetes.io/unschedulable`: Node is unschedulable.
 * `node.cloudprovider.kubernetes.io/uninitialized`: When the kubelet is started
    with "external" cloud provider, this taint is set on a node to mark it
    as unusable. After a controller from the cloud-controller-manager initializes
    this node, the kubelet removes this taint.

In case a node is to be evicted, the node controller or the kubelet adds relevant taints
with `NoExecute` effect. If the fault condition returns to normal the kubelet or node
controller can remove the relevant taint(s).

{{< note >}}
The control plane limits the rate of adding node new taints to nodes. This rate limiting
manages the number of evictions that are triggered when many nodes become unreachable at
once (for example: if there is a network disruption).
{{< /note >}}

You can specify `tolerationSeconds` for a Pod to define how long that Pod stays bound
to a failing or unresponsive Node.

For example, you might want to keep an application with a lot of local state
bound to node for a long time in the event of network partition, hoping
that the partition will recover and thus the pod eviction can be avoided.
The toleration you set for that Pod might look like:

```yaml
tolerations:
- key: "node.kubernetes.io/unreachable"
  operator: "Exists"
  effect: "NoExecute"
  tolerationSeconds: 6000
```

{{< note >}}
Kubernetes automatically adds a toleration for
`node.kubernetes.io/not-ready` and `node.kubernetes.io/unreachable`
with `tolerationSeconds=300`,
unless you, or a controller, set those tolerations explicitly.

These automatically-added tolerations mean that Pods remain bound to
Nodes for 5 minutes after one of these problems is detected.
{{< /note >}}

[DaemonSet](/docs/concepts/workloads/controllers/daemonset/) pods are created with
`NoExecute` tolerations for the following taints with no `tolerationSeconds`:

  * `node.kubernetes.io/unreachable`
  * `node.kubernetes.io/not-ready`

This ensures that DaemonSet pods are never evicted due to these problems.

## Taint Nodes by Condition

The control plane, using the node {{<glossary_tooltip text="controller" term_id="controller">}},
automatically creates taints with a `NoSchedule` effect for [node conditions](/docs/concepts/scheduling-eviction/node-pressure-eviction/#node-conditions).

The scheduler checks taints, not node conditions, when it makes scheduling
decisions. This ensures that node conditions don't directly affect scheduling.
For example, if the `DiskPressure` node condition is active, the control plane
adds the `node.kubernetes.io/disk-pressure` taint and does not schedule new pods
onto the affected node. If the `MemoryPressure` node condition is active, the
control plane adds the `node.kubernetes.io/memory-pressure` taint. 

You can ignore node conditions for newly created pods by adding the corresponding
Pod tolerations. The control plane also adds the `node.kubernetes.io/memory-pressure` 
toleration on pods that have a {{< glossary_tooltip text="QoS class" term_id="qos-class" >}} 
other than `BestEffort`. This is because Kubernetes treats pods in the `Guaranteed` 
or `Burstable` QoS classes (even pods with no memory request set) as if they are
able to cope with memory pressure, while new `BestEffort` pods are not scheduled
onto the affected node. 

The DaemonSet controller automatically adds the following `NoSchedule`
tolerations to all daemons, to prevent DaemonSets from breaking.

  * `node.kubernetes.io/memory-pressure`
  * `node.kubernetes.io/disk-pressure`
  * `node.kubernetes.io/pid-pressure` (1.14 or later)
  * `node.kubernetes.io/unschedulable` (1.10 or later)
  * `node.kubernetes.io/network-unavailable` (*host network only*)

Adding these tolerations ensures backward compatibility. You can also add
arbitrary tolerations to DaemonSets.

## {{% heading "whatsnext" %}}

* Read about [Node-pressure Eviction](/docs/concepts/scheduling-eviction/node-pressure-eviction/) and how you can configure it
* Read about [Pod Priority](/docs/concepts/scheduling-eviction/pod-priority-preemption/)

Commit message:

improved the taints and toleration
Update content/en/docs/concepts/scheduling-eviction/taint-and-toleration.md

Co-authored-by: ZSC <zacharysarah@users.noreply.github.com>

content/en/docs/concepts/scheduling-eviction/taint-and-toleration.md, after:

---
reviewers:
- davidopp
- kevin-wangzefeng
- bsalamat
title: Taints and Tolerations
content_type: concept
weight: 40
---


<!-- overview -->
[_Node affinity_](/docs/concepts/scheduling-eviction/assign-pod-node/#affinity-and-anti-affinity)
is a property of {{< glossary_tooltip text="Pods" term_id="pod" >}} that *attracts* them to
a set of {{< glossary_tooltip text="nodes" term_id="node" >}} (either as a preference or a
hard requirement). _Taints_ are the opposite -- they allow a node to repel a set of pods.

_Tolerations_ are applied to pods. Tolerations allow the scheduler to schedule pods with matching taints. Tolerations allow scheduling but don't guarantee scheduling: the scheduler also [evaluates other parameters](https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/scheduling-eviction/pod-priority-preemption/) as part of its function.

Taints and tolerations work together to ensure that pods are not scheduled
onto inappropriate nodes. One or more taints are applied to a node; this
marks that the node should not accept any pods that do not tolerate the taints.



<!-- body -->

## Concepts

You add a taint to a node using [kubectl taint](/docs/reference/generated/kubectl/kubectl-commands#taint).
For example,

```shell
kubectl taint nodes node1 key1=value1:NoSchedule
```

places a taint on node `node1`. The taint has key `key1`, value `value1`, and taint effect `NoSchedule`.
This means that no pod will be able to schedule onto `node1` unless it has a matching toleration.

To remove the taint added by the command above, you can run:
```shell
kubectl taint nodes node1 key1=value1:NoSchedule-
```

You specify a toleration for a pod in the PodSpec. Both of the following tolerations "match" the
taint created by the `kubectl taint` line above, and thus a pod with either toleration would be able
to schedule onto `node1`:

```yaml
tolerations:
- key: "key1"
  operator: "Equal"
  value: "value1"
  effect: "NoSchedule"
```

```yaml
tolerations:
- key: "key1"
  operator: "Exists"
  effect: "NoSchedule"
```

Here's an example of a pod that uses tolerations:

{{< codenew file="pods/pod-with-toleration.yaml" >}}

The default value for `operator` is `Equal`.

A toleration "matches" a taint if the keys are the same and the effects are the same, and:

* the `operator` is `Exists` (in which case no `value` should be specified), or
* the `operator` is `Equal` and the `value`s are equal.

{{< note >}}

There are two special cases:

An empty `key` with operator `Exists` matches all keys, values and effects which means this
will tolerate everything.

An empty `effect` matches all effects with key `key1`.

{{< /note >}}

The above example used `effect` of `NoSchedule`. Alternatively, you can use `effect` of `PreferNoSchedule`.
This is a "preference" or "soft" version of `NoSchedule` -- the system will *try* to avoid placing a
pod that does not tolerate the taint on the node, but it is not required. The third kind of `effect` is
`NoExecute`, described later.

You can put multiple taints on the same node and multiple tolerations on the same pod.
The way Kubernetes processes multiple taints and tolerations is like a filter: start
with all of a node's taints, then ignore the ones for which the pod has a matching toleration; the
remaining un-ignored taints have the indicated effects on the pod. In particular,

* if there is at least one un-ignored taint with effect `NoSchedule` then Kubernetes will not schedule
the pod onto that node
* if there is no un-ignored taint with effect `NoSchedule` but there is at least one un-ignored taint with
effect `PreferNoSchedule` then Kubernetes will *try* to not schedule the pod onto the node
* if there is at least one un-ignored taint with effect `NoExecute` then the pod will be evicted from
the node (if it is already running on the node), and will not be
scheduled onto the node (if it is not yet running on the node).

For example, imagine you taint a node like this

```shell
kubectl taint nodes node1 key1=value1:NoSchedule
kubectl taint nodes node1 key1=value1:NoExecute
kubectl taint nodes node1 key2=value2:NoSchedule
```

And a pod has two tolerations:

```yaml
tolerations:
- key: "key1"
  operator: "Equal"
  value: "value1"
  effect: "NoSchedule"
- key: "key1"
  operator: "Equal"
  value: "value1"
  effect: "NoExecute"
```

In this case, the pod will not be able to schedule onto the node, because there is no
toleration matching the third taint. But it will be able to continue running if it is
already running on the node when the taint is added, because the third taint is the only
one of the three that is not tolerated by the pod.

Normally, if a taint with effect `NoExecute` is added to a node, then any pods that do
not tolerate the taint will be evicted immediately, and pods that do tolerate the
taint will never be evicted. However, a toleration with `NoExecute` effect can specify
an optional `tolerationSeconds` field that dictates how long the pod will stay bound
to the node after the taint is added. For example,

```yaml
tolerations:
- key: "key1"
  operator: "Equal"
  value: "value1"
  effect: "NoExecute"
  tolerationSeconds: 3600
```

means that if this pod is running and a matching taint is added to the node, then
the pod will stay bound to the node for 3600 seconds, and then be evicted. If the
taint is removed before that time, the pod will not be evicted.

## Example Use Cases

Taints and tolerations are a flexible way to steer pods *away* from nodes or evict
pods that shouldn't be running. A few of the use cases are

* **Dedicated Nodes**: If you want to dedicate a set of nodes for exclusive use by
a particular set of users, you can add a taint to those nodes (say,
`kubectl taint nodes nodename dedicated=groupName:NoSchedule`) and then add a corresponding
toleration to their pods (this would be done most easily by writing a custom
[admission controller](/docs/reference/access-authn-authz/admission-controllers/)).
The pods with the tolerations will then be allowed to use the tainted (dedicated) nodes as
well as any other nodes in the cluster. If you want to dedicate the nodes to them *and*
ensure they *only* use the dedicated nodes, then you should additionally add a label similar
to the taint to the same set of nodes (e.g. `dedicated=groupName`), and the admission
controller should additionally add a node affinity to require that the pods can only schedule
onto nodes labeled with `dedicated=groupName`.

* **Nodes with Special Hardware**: In a cluster where a small subset of nodes have specialized
hardware (for example GPUs), it is desirable to keep pods that don't need the specialized
hardware off of those nodes, thus leaving room for later-arriving pods that do need the
specialized hardware. This can be done by tainting the nodes that have the specialized
hardware (e.g. `kubectl taint nodes nodename special=true:NoSchedule` or
`kubectl taint nodes nodename special=true:PreferNoSchedule`) and adding a corresponding
toleration to pods that use the special hardware. As in the dedicated nodes use case,
it is probably easiest to apply the tolerations using a custom
[admission controller](/docs/reference/access-authn-authz/admission-controllers/).
For example, it is recommended to use [Extended
Resources](/docs/concepts/configuration/manage-resources-containers/#extended-resources)
to represent the special hardware, taint your special hardware nodes with the
extended resource name and run the
[ExtendedResourceToleration](/docs/reference/access-authn-authz/admission-controllers/#extendedresourcetoleration)
admission controller. Now, because the nodes are tainted, no pods without the
toleration will schedule on them. But when you submit a pod that requests the
extended resource, the `ExtendedResourceToleration` admission controller will
automatically add the correct toleration to the pod and that pod will schedule
on the special hardware nodes. This will make sure that these special hardware
nodes are dedicated for pods requesting such hardware and you don't have to
manually add tolerations to your pods.

* **Taint based Evictions**: A per-pod-configurable eviction behavior
when there are node problems, which is described in the next section.

## Taint based Evictions

{{< feature-state for_k8s_version="v1.18" state="stable" >}}

The `NoExecute` taint effect, mentioned above, affects pods that are already
running on the node as follows

 * pods that do not tolerate the taint are evicted immediately
 * pods that tolerate the taint without specifying `tolerationSeconds` in
   their toleration specification remain bound forever
 * pods that tolerate the taint with a specified `tolerationSeconds` remain
   bound for the specified amount of time

The node controller automatically taints a Node when certain conditions
are true. The following taints are built in:

 * `node.kubernetes.io/not-ready`: Node is not ready. This corresponds to
   the NodeCondition `Ready` being "`False`".
 * `node.kubernetes.io/unreachable`: Node is unreachable from the node
   controller. This corresponds to the NodeCondition `Ready` being "`Unknown`".
 * `node.kubernetes.io/memory-pressure`: Node has memory pressure.
 * `node.kubernetes.io/disk-pressure`: Node has disk pressure.
 * `node.kubernetes.io/pid-pressure`: Node has PID pressure.
 * `node.kubernetes.io/network-unavailable`: Node's network is unavailable.
 * `node.kubernetes.io/unschedulable`: Node is unschedulable.
 * `node.cloudprovider.kubernetes.io/uninitialized`: When the kubelet is started
    with "external" cloud provider, this taint is set on a node to mark it
    as unusable. After a controller from the cloud-controller-manager initializes
    this node, the kubelet removes this taint.

In case a node is to be evicted, the node controller or the kubelet adds relevant taints
with `NoExecute` effect. If the fault condition returns to normal the kubelet or node
controller can remove the relevant taint(s).

{{< note >}}
The control plane limits the rate of adding node new taints to nodes. This rate limiting
manages the number of evictions that are triggered when many nodes become unreachable at
once (for example: if there is a network disruption).
{{< /note >}}

You can specify `tolerationSeconds` for a Pod to define how long that Pod stays bound
to a failing or unresponsive Node.

For example, you might want to keep an application with a lot of local state
bound to node for a long time in the event of network partition, hoping
that the partition will recover and thus the pod eviction can be avoided.
The toleration you set for that Pod might look like:

```yaml
tolerations:
- key: "node.kubernetes.io/unreachable"
  operator: "Exists"
  effect: "NoExecute"
  tolerationSeconds: 6000
```

{{< note >}}
Kubernetes automatically adds a toleration for
`node.kubernetes.io/not-ready` and `node.kubernetes.io/unreachable`
with `tolerationSeconds=300`,
unless you, or a controller, set those tolerations explicitly.

These automatically-added tolerations mean that Pods remain bound to
Nodes for 5 minutes after one of these problems is detected.
{{< /note >}}

[DaemonSet](/docs/concepts/workloads/controllers/daemonset/) pods are created with
`NoExecute` tolerations for the following taints with no `tolerationSeconds`:

  * `node.kubernetes.io/unreachable`
  * `node.kubernetes.io/not-ready`

This ensures that DaemonSet pods are never evicted due to these problems.

## Taint Nodes by Condition

The control plane, using the node {{<glossary_tooltip text="controller" term_id="controller">}},
automatically creates taints with a `NoSchedule` effect for [node conditions](/docs/concepts/scheduling-eviction/node-pressure-eviction/#node-conditions).

The scheduler checks taints, not node conditions, when it makes scheduling
decisions. This ensures that node conditions don't directly affect scheduling.
For example, if the `DiskPressure` node condition is active, the control plane
adds the `node.kubernetes.io/disk-pressure` taint and does not schedule new pods
onto the affected node. If the `MemoryPressure` node condition is active, the
control plane adds the `node.kubernetes.io/memory-pressure` taint. 

You can ignore node conditions for newly created pods by adding the corresponding
Pod tolerations. The control plane also adds the `node.kubernetes.io/memory-pressure` 
toleration on pods that have a {{< glossary_tooltip text="QoS class" term_id="qos-class" >}} 
other than `BestEffort`. This is because Kubernetes treats pods in the `Guaranteed` 
or `Burstable` QoS classes (even pods with no memory request set) as if they are
able to cope with memory pressure, while new `BestEffort` pods are not scheduled
onto the affected node. 

The DaemonSet controller automatically adds the following `NoSchedule`
tolerations to all daemons, to prevent DaemonSets from breaking.

  * `node.kubernetes.io/memory-pressure`
  * `node.kubernetes.io/disk-pressure`
  * `node.kubernetes.io/pid-pressure` (1.14 or later)
  * `node.kubernetes.io/unschedulable` (1.10 or later)
  * `node.kubernetes.io/network-unavailable` (*host network only*)

Adding these tolerations ensures backward compatibility. You can also add
arbitrary tolerations to DaemonSets.

## {{% heading "whatsnext" %}}

* Read about [Node-pressure Eviction](/docs/concepts/scheduling-eviction/node-pressure-eviction/) and how you can configure it
* Read about [Pod Priority](/docs/concepts/scheduling-eviction/pod-priority-preemption/)
