content/zh/docs/concepts/storage/projected-volumes.md, before:

---
title: 投射卷
content_type: concept
weight: 21 # just after persistent volumes
---

<!--
reviewers:
- marosset
- jsturtevant
- zshihang
title: Projected Volumes
content_type: concept
weight: 21 # just after persistent volumes
-->

<!-- overview -->

<!--
This document describes _projected volumes_ in Kubernetes. Familiarity with [volumes](/docs/concepts/storage/volumes/) is suggested.
-->
本文档描述 Kubernet 中的*投射卷（Projected Volumes）*。
建议先熟悉[卷](/zh/docs/concepts/storage/volumes/)概念。

<!-- body -->

<!--
## Introduction

A `projected` volume maps several existing volume sources into the same directory.

Currently, the following types of volume sources can be projected:

* [`secret`](/docs/concepts/storage/volumes/#secret)
* [`downwardAPI`](/docs/concepts/storage/volumes/#downwardapi)
* [`configMap`](/docs/concepts/storage/volumes/#configmap)
* `serviceAccountToken`
-->
## 介绍    {#introduction}

一个 `projected` 卷可以将若干现有的卷源映射到同一个目录之上。

目前，以下类型的卷源可以被投射：

* [`secret`](/zh/docs/concepts/storage/volumes/#secret)
* [`downwardAPI`](/zh/docs/concepts/storage/volumes/#downwardapi)
* [`configMap`](/zh/docs/concepts/storage/volumes/#configmap)
* `serviceAccountToken`

<!--
All sources are required to be in the same namespace as the Pod. For more details,
see the [all-in-one volume design document](https://github.com/kubernetes/community/blob/master/contributors/design-proposals/node/all-in-one-volume.md).
-->
所有的卷源都要求处于 Pod 所在的同一个名字空间内。进一步的详细信息，可参考
[一体化卷设计文档](https://github.com/kubernetes/community/blob/master/contributors/design-proposals/node/all-in-one-volume.md)。

<!--
### Example configuration with a secret, a downwardAPI, and a configMap {#example-configuration-secret-downwardapi-configmap}
-->
### 带有 Secret、DownwardAPI 和 ConfigMap 的配置示例 {#example-configuration-secret-downwardapi-configmap}

{{< codenew file="pods/storage/projected-secret-downwardapi-configmap.yaml" >}}

<!--
### Example configuration: secrets with a non-default permission mode set {#example-configuration-secrets-nondefault-permission-mode}
-->
### 带有非默认权限模式设置的 Secret 的配置示例 {#example-configuration-secrets-nondefault-permission-mode}

{{< codenew file="pods/storage/projected-secrets-nondefault-permission-mode.yaml" >}}

<!--
Each projected volume source is listed in the spec under `sources`. The
parameters are nearly the same with two exceptions:

* For secrets, the `secretName` field has been changed to `name` to be consistent
  with ConfigMap naming.
* The `defaultMode` can only be specified at the projected level and not for each
  volume source. However, as illustrated above, you can explicitly set the `mode`
  for each individual projection.
-->
每个被投射的卷源都列举在规约中的 `sources` 下面。参数几乎相同，只有两个例外：

* 对于 Secret，`secretName` 字段被改为 `name` 以便于 ConfigMap 的命名一致；
* `defaultMode` 只能在投射层级设置，不能在卷源层级设置。不过，正如上面所展示的，
  你可以显式地为每个投射单独设置 `mode` 属性。 

<!--
When the `TokenRequestProjection` feature is enabled, you can inject the token
for the current [service account](/docs/reference/access-authn-authz/authentication/#service-account-tokens)
into a Pod at a specified path. For example:
-->
当 `TokenRequestProjection` 特性被启用时，你可以将当前
[服务账号](/zh/docs/reference/access-authn-authz/authentication/#service-account-tokens)
的令牌注入到 Pod 中特定路径下。例如：

{{< codenew file="pods/storage/projected-service-account-token.yaml" >}}

<!--
The example Pod has a projected volume containing the injected service account
token. This token can be used by a Pod's containers to access the Kubernetes API
server. The `audience` field contains the intended audience of the
token. A recipient of the token must identify itself with an identifier specified
in the audience of the token, and otherwise should reject the token. This field
is optional and it defaults to the identifier of the API server.
-->
示例 Pod 中包含一个投射卷，其中包含注入的服务账号令牌。该令牌可以被 Pod
中的容器用来访问 Kubernetes API 服务器。`audience` 字段包含令牌所针对的受众。
收到令牌的主体必须使用令牌受众中所指定的某个标识符来标识自身，否则应该拒绝该令牌。
此字段是可选的，默认值为 API 服务器的标识。

<!--
The `expirationSeconds` is the expected duration of validity of the service account
token. It defaults to 1 hour and must be at least 10 minutes (600 seconds). An administrator
can also limit its maximum value by specifying the `--service-account-max-token-expiration`
option for the API server. The `path` field specifies a relative path to the mount point
of the projected volume.
-->
字段 `expirationSeconds` 是服务账号令牌预期的生命期长度。默认值为 1 小时，
必须至少为 10 分钟（600 秒）。管理员也可以通过设置 API 服务器的命令行参数
`--service-account-max-token-expiration` 来为其设置最大值上限。`path` 字段给出
与投射卷挂载点之间的相对路径。

{{< note >}}
<!--
A container using a projected volume source as a [`subPath`](/docs/concepts/storage/volumes/#using-subpath)
volume mount will not receive updates for those volume sources.
-->
以 [`subPath`](/zh/docs/concepts/storage/volumes/#using-subpath)
形式使用投射卷源的容器无法收到对应卷源的更新。
{{< /note >}}

<!--
## SecurityContext interactions
-->
## 与 SecurityContext 间的关系    {#securitycontext-interactions}

<!--
The [proposal for file permission handling in projected service account volume](https://github.com/kubernetes/enhancements/tree/master/keps/sig-storage/2451-service-account-token-volumes#token-volume-projection)
enhancement introduced the projected files having the the correct owner
permissions set.
-->
[关于在投射的服务账号卷中处理文件访问权限的提案](https://github.com/kubernetes/enhancements/tree/master/keps/sig-storage/2451-service-account-token-volumes#token-volume-projection)
介绍了如何使得所投射的文件具有合适的属主访问权限。

### Linux

<!--
In Linux pods that have a projected volume and `RunAsUser` set in the Pod
[`SecurityContext`](/docs/reference/kubernetes-api/workload-resources/pod-v1/#security-context),
the projected files have the correct ownership set including container user
ownership.
-->
在包含了投射卷并在
[`SecurityContext`](/docs/reference/kubernetes-api/workload-resources/pod-v1/#security-context)
中设置了 `RunAsUser` 属性的 Linux Pod 中，投射文件具有正确的属主属性设置，
其中包含了容器用户属主。

### Windows

<!--
In Windows pods that have a projected volume and `RunAsUsername` set in the
Pod `SecurityContext`, the ownership is not enforced due to the way user
accounts are managed in Windows. Windows stores and manages local user and group
accounts in a database file called Security Account Manager (SAM). Each
container maintains its own instance of the SAM database, to which the host has
no visibility into while the container is running. Windows containers are
designed to run the user mode portion of the OS in isolation from the host,
hence the maintenance of a virtual SAM database. As a result, the kubelet running
on the host does not have the ability to dynamically configure host file
ownership for virtualized container accounts. It is recommended that if files on
the host machine are to be shared with the container then they should be placed
into their own volume mount outside of `C:\`.
-->
在包含了投射卷并在 `SecurityContext` 中设置了 `RunAsUsername` 的 Windows Pod 中,
由于 Windows 中用户账号的管理方式问题，文件的属主无法正确设置。
Windows 在名为安全账号管理器（Security Account Manager，SAM）
的数据库中保存本地用户和组信息。每个容器会维护其自身的 SAM 数据库实例，
宿主系统无法窥视到容器运行期间数据库内容。Windows 容器被设计用来运行操作系统的用户态部分，
与宿主系统之间隔离，因此维护了一个虚拟的 SAM 数据库。
所以，在宿主系统上运行的 kubelet 无法动态为虚拟的容器账号配置宿主文件的属主。
如果需要将宿主机器上的文件与容器共享，建议将它们放到挂载于 `C:\` 之外
的独立卷中。

<!--
By default, the projected files will have the following ownership as shown for
an example projected volume file:
-->
默认情况下，所投射的文件会具有如下例所示的属主属性设置：

```powershell
PS C:\> Get-Acl C:\var\run\secrets\kubernetes.io\serviceaccount\..2021_08_31_22_22_18.318230061\ca.crt | Format-List

Path   : Microsoft.PowerShell.Core\FileSystem::C:\var\run\secrets\kubernetes.io\serviceaccount\..2021_08_31_22_22_18.318230061\ca.crt
Owner  : BUILTIN\Administrators
Group  : NT AUTHORITY\SYSTEM
Access : NT AUTHORITY\SYSTEM Allow  FullControl
         BUILTIN\Administrators Allow  FullControl
         BUILTIN\Users Allow  ReadAndExecute, Synchronize
Audit  :
Sddl   : O:BAG:SYD:AI(A;ID;FA;;;SY)(A;ID;FA;;;BA)(A;ID;0x1200a9;;;BU)
```

<!--
This implies all administrator users like `ContainerAdministrator` will have
read, write and execute access while, non-administrator users will have read and
execute access.
-->
这意味着，所有类似 `ContainerAdministrator` 的管理员用户都具有读、写和执行访问权限，
而非管理员用户将具有读和执行访问权限。

{{< note >}}
<!--
In general, granting the container access to the host is discouraged as it can
open the door for potential security exploits.

Creating a Windows Pod with `RunAsUser` in it's `SecurityContext` will result in
the Pod being stuck at `ContainerCreating` forever. So it is advised to not use
the Linux only `RunAsUser` option with Windows Pods.
-->
总体而言，为容器授予访问宿主系统的权限这种做法是不推荐的，因为这样做可能会打开潜在的安全性攻击之门。

在创建 Windows Pod 时，如过在其 `SecurityContext` 中设置了 `RunAsUser`，
Pod 会一直阻塞在 `ContainerCreating` 状态。因此，建议不要在 Windows
节点上使用仅针对 Linux 的 `RunAsUser` 选项。
{{< /note >}}

Commit message:

[zh] Update projected-volumes.md
Signed-off-by: xin.li <xin.li@daocloud.io>

content/zh/docs/concepts/storage/projected-volumes.md, after:

---
title: 投射卷
content_type: concept
weight: 21 # just after persistent volumes
---

<!--
reviewers:
- marosset
- jsturtevant
- zshihang
title: Projected Volumes
content_type: concept
weight: 21 # just after persistent volumes
-->

<!-- overview -->

<!--
This document describes _projected volumes_ in Kubernetes. Familiarity with [volumes](/docs/concepts/storage/volumes/) is suggested.
-->
本文档描述 Kubernet 中的*投射卷（Projected Volumes）*。
建议先熟悉[卷](/zh/docs/concepts/storage/volumes/)概念。

<!-- body -->

<!--
## Introduction

A `projected` volume maps several existing volume sources into the same directory.

Currently, the following types of volume sources can be projected:

* [`secret`](/docs/concepts/storage/volumes/#secret)
* [`downwardAPI`](/docs/concepts/storage/volumes/#downwardapi)
* [`configMap`](/docs/concepts/storage/volumes/#configmap)
* [`serviceAccountToken`](#serviceaccounttoken)
-->
## 介绍    {#introduction}

一个 `projected` 卷可以将若干现有的卷源映射到同一个目录之上。

目前，以下类型的卷源可以被投射：

* [`secret`](/zh/docs/concepts/storage/volumes/#secret)
* [`downwardAPI`](/zh/docs/concepts/storage/volumes/#downwardapi)
* [`configMap`](/zh/docs/concepts/storage/volumes/#configmap)
* [`serviceAccountToken`](#serviceaccounttoken)

<!--
All sources are required to be in the same namespace as the Pod. For more details,
see the [all-in-one volume design document](https://github.com/kubernetes/community/blob/master/contributors/design-proposals/node/all-in-one-volume.md).
-->
所有的卷源都要求处于 Pod 所在的同一个名字空间内。进一步的详细信息，可参考
[一体化卷设计文档](https://github.com/kubernetes/community/blob/master/contributors/design-proposals/node/all-in-one-volume.md)。

<!--
### Example configuration with a secret, a downwardAPI, and a configMap {#example-configuration-secret-downwardapi-configmap}
-->
### 带有 Secret、DownwardAPI 和 ConfigMap 的配置示例 {#example-configuration-secret-downwardapi-configmap}

{{< codenew file="pods/storage/projected-secret-downwardapi-configmap.yaml" >}}

<!--
### Example configuration: secrets with a non-default permission mode set {#example-configuration-secrets-nondefault-permission-mode}
-->
### 带有非默认权限模式设置的 Secret 的配置示例 {#example-configuration-secrets-nondefault-permission-mode}

{{< codenew file="pods/storage/projected-secrets-nondefault-permission-mode.yaml" >}}

<!--
Each projected volume source is listed in the spec under `sources`. The
parameters are nearly the same with two exceptions:

* For secrets, the `secretName` field has been changed to `name` to be consistent
  with ConfigMap naming.
* The `defaultMode` can only be specified at the projected level and not for each
  volume source. However, as illustrated above, you can explicitly set the `mode`
  for each individual projection.
-->
每个被投射的卷源都列举在规约中的 `sources` 下面。参数几乎相同，只有两个例外：

* 对于 Secret，`secretName` 字段被改为 `name` 以便于 ConfigMap 的命名一致；
* `defaultMode` 只能在投射层级设置，不能在卷源层级设置。不过，正如上面所展示的，
  你可以显式地为每个投射单独设置 `mode` 属性。 

<!--
## serviceAccountToken projected volumes {#serviceaccounttoken}
When the `TokenRequestProjection` feature is enabled, you can inject the token
for the current [service account](/docs/reference/access-authn-authz/authentication/#service-account-tokens)
into a Pod at a specified path. For example:
-->
## serviceAccountToken 投射卷 {#serviceaccounttoken}
当 `TokenRequestProjection` 特性被启用时，你可以将当前
[服务账号](/zh/docs/reference/access-authn-authz/authentication/#service-account-tokens)
的令牌注入到 Pod 中特定路径下。例如：

{{< codenew file="pods/storage/projected-service-account-token.yaml" >}}

<!--
The example Pod has a projected volume containing the injected service account
token. Containers in this Pod can use that token to access the Kubernetes API
server, authenticating with the identity of [the pod's ServiceAccount](/docs/tasks/configure-pod-container/configure-service-account/).
The `audience` field contains the intended audience of the
token. A recipient of the token must identify itself with an identifier specified
in the audience of the token, and otherwise should reject the token. This field
is optional and it defaults to the identifier of the API server.
-->
示例 Pod 中包含一个投射卷，其中包含注入的服务账号令牌。
此 Pod 中的容器可以使用该令牌访问 Kubernetes API 服务器， 使用 
[pod 的 ServiceAccount](/zh/docs/tasks/configure-pod-container/configure-service-account/)
进行身份验证。`audience` 字段包含令牌所针对的受众。
收到令牌的主体必须使用令牌受众中所指定的某个标识符来标识自身，否则应该拒绝该令牌。
此字段是可选的，默认值为 API 服务器的标识。

<!--
The `expirationSeconds` is the expected duration of validity of the service account
token. It defaults to 1 hour and must be at least 10 minutes (600 seconds). An administrator
can also limit its maximum value by specifying the `--service-account-max-token-expiration`
option for the API server. The `path` field specifies a relative path to the mount point
of the projected volume.
-->
字段 `expirationSeconds` 是服务账号令牌预期的生命期长度。默认值为 1 小时，
必须至少为 10 分钟（600 秒）。管理员也可以通过设置 API 服务器的命令行参数
`--service-account-max-token-expiration` 来为其设置最大值上限。`path` 字段给出
与投射卷挂载点之间的相对路径。

{{< note >}}
<!--
A container using a projected volume source as a [`subPath`](/docs/concepts/storage/volumes/#using-subpath)
volume mount will not receive updates for those volume sources.
-->
以 [`subPath`](/zh/docs/concepts/storage/volumes/#using-subpath)
形式使用投射卷源的容器无法收到对应卷源的更新。
{{< /note >}}

<!--
## SecurityContext interactions
-->
## 与 SecurityContext 间的关系    {#securitycontext-interactions}

<!--
The [proposal for file permission handling in projected service account volume](https://github.com/kubernetes/enhancements/tree/master/keps/sig-storage/2451-service-account-token-volumes#token-volume-projection)
enhancement introduced the projected files having the the correct owner
permissions set.
-->
[关于在投射的服务账号卷中处理文件访问权限的提案](https://github.com/kubernetes/enhancements/tree/master/keps/sig-storage/2451-service-account-token-volumes#token-volume-projection)
介绍了如何使得所投射的文件具有合适的属主访问权限。

### Linux

<!--
In Linux pods that have a projected volume and `RunAsUser` set in the Pod
[`SecurityContext`](/docs/reference/kubernetes-api/workload-resources/pod-v1/#security-context),
the projected files have the correct ownership set including container user
ownership.
-->
在包含了投射卷并在
[`SecurityContext`](/docs/reference/kubernetes-api/workload-resources/pod-v1/#security-context)
中设置了 `RunAsUser` 属性的 Linux Pod 中，投射文件具有正确的属主属性设置，
其中包含了容器用户属主。

### Windows

<!--
In Windows pods that have a projected volume and `RunAsUsername` set in the
Pod `SecurityContext`, the ownership is not enforced due to the way user
accounts are managed in Windows. Windows stores and manages local user and group
accounts in a database file called Security Account Manager (SAM). Each
container maintains its own instance of the SAM database, to which the host has
no visibility into while the container is running. Windows containers are
designed to run the user mode portion of the OS in isolation from the host,
hence the maintenance of a virtual SAM database. As a result, the kubelet running
on the host does not have the ability to dynamically configure host file
ownership for virtualized container accounts. It is recommended that if files on
the host machine are to be shared with the container then they should be placed
into their own volume mount outside of `C:\`.
-->
在包含了投射卷并在 `SecurityContext` 中设置了 `RunAsUsername` 的 Windows Pod 中,
由于 Windows 中用户账号的管理方式问题，文件的属主无法正确设置。
Windows 在名为安全账号管理器（Security Account Manager，SAM）
的数据库中保存本地用户和组信息。每个容器会维护其自身的 SAM 数据库实例，
宿主系统无法窥视到容器运行期间数据库内容。Windows 容器被设计用来运行操作系统的用户态部分，
与宿主系统之间隔离，因此维护了一个虚拟的 SAM 数据库。
所以，在宿主系统上运行的 kubelet 无法动态为虚拟的容器账号配置宿主文件的属主。
如果需要将宿主机器上的文件与容器共享，建议将它们放到挂载于 `C:\` 之外
的独立卷中。

<!--
By default, the projected files will have the following ownership as shown for
an example projected volume file:
-->
默认情况下，所投射的文件会具有如下例所示的属主属性设置：

```powershell
PS C:\> Get-Acl C:\var\run\secrets\kubernetes.io\serviceaccount\..2021_08_31_22_22_18.318230061\ca.crt | Format-List

Path   : Microsoft.PowerShell.Core\FileSystem::C:\var\run\secrets\kubernetes.io\serviceaccount\..2021_08_31_22_22_18.318230061\ca.crt
Owner  : BUILTIN\Administrators
Group  : NT AUTHORITY\SYSTEM
Access : NT AUTHORITY\SYSTEM Allow  FullControl
         BUILTIN\Administrators Allow  FullControl
         BUILTIN\Users Allow  ReadAndExecute, Synchronize
Audit  :
Sddl   : O:BAG:SYD:AI(A;ID;FA;;;SY)(A;ID;FA;;;BA)(A;ID;0x1200a9;;;BU)
```

<!--
This implies all administrator users like `ContainerAdministrator` will have
read, write and execute access while, non-administrator users will have read and
execute access.
-->
这意味着，所有类似 `ContainerAdministrator` 的管理员用户都具有读、写和执行访问权限，
而非管理员用户将具有读和执行访问权限。

{{< note >}}
<!--
In general, granting the container access to the host is discouraged as it can
open the door for potential security exploits.

Creating a Windows Pod with `RunAsUser` in it's `SecurityContext` will result in
the Pod being stuck at `ContainerCreating` forever. So it is advised to not use
the Linux only `RunAsUser` option with Windows Pods.
-->
总体而言，为容器授予访问宿主系统的权限这种做法是不推荐的，因为这样做可能会打开潜在的安全性攻击之门。

在创建 Windows Pod 时，如过在其 `SecurityContext` 中设置了 `RunAsUser`，
Pod 会一直阻塞在 `ContainerCreating` 状态。因此，建议不要在 Windows
节点上使用仅针对 Linux 的 `RunAsUser` 选项。
{{< /note >}}
